Unto the end, a psalm for David:
With expectation I have waited for the Lord, and he was attentive to me.
And he heard my prayers, and brought me out of the pit of misery and the mire of dregs. And he set my feet upon a rock, and directed my steps.
And he put a new canticle into my mouth, a song to our God. Many shall see, and shall fear, and they shall hope in the Lord.
Blessed is the man whose trust is in the name of the Lord, and who hath not had regard to vanities and lying follies.
Many things thou hast wrought, O Lord my God, thy wonderful works, and in thy thoughts there is no one like to thee. I have declared and I have spoken; they are multiplied above number.
Sacrifice and oblation thou didst not desire; but thou hast perfected ears for me. Burnt offering and sin offering thou didst not require.
Then said I: Behold I come; in the head of the book it is written of me,
that I should do thy will; O my God, I have desired it, and thy law in the midst of my heart.
I have declared thy justice in a great church; behold I will not restrain my lips; O Lord, thou knowest it.
I have not hid thy justice within my heart; I have declared thy truth and thy salvation. I have not concealed thy mercy and thy truth from a great council.
Withhold not thou, O Lord, thy tender mercies from me; thy mercy and thy truth have always upheld me.
For evils without number have surrounded me; my iniquities have overtaken me, and I was not able to see; they are multiplied above the hairs of my head, and my heart hath forsaken me.
Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me. Look down, O Lord, to help me.
Let them be confounded and ashamed together, who seek after my soul to take it away; let them be turned backward and be ashamed, who desire evils to me.
Let them immediately bear their confusion, that say to me: Well done, well done.
Let all that seek thee rejoice and be glad in thee, and let them say always: The Lord be magnified, who love thy salvation.
But I am a beggar and poor; the Lord is careful for me. Thou art my helper and my protector; O my God, make no tarrying.
