Quārē fremuērunt Gentēs, et populī meditātī sunt inānia?^Why have the Gentiles raged, and the people devised vain things?
Astitērunt rēgēs terrae, et prīncipēs convēnērunt in ūnum adversus Dominum, et adversus chrīstum ejus.^The kings of the earth stood up, and the princes met together, against the Lord, and against his Christ.
Dīrumpāmus vincula eōrum, et prōjiciāmus ā nōbīs jugum ipsōrum.^Let us break their bonds asunder, and let us cast away their yoke from us.
Quī habitat in caelīs irrīdēbit eōs, et Dominus subsannābit eōs.^He that dwelleth in heaven shall laugh at them, and the Lord shall deride them.
Tunc loquētur ad eōs in īrā suā, et in furōre suō conturbābit eōs.^Then shall he speak to them in his anger, and trouble them in his rage.
Ego autem constitūtus sum rēx ab eō super Sīon montem sanctum ejus, praedicans praeceptum ejus.^But I am appointed king by him over Sion, his holy mountain, preaching his commandment.
Dominus dīxit ad mē: Fīlius meus es tū, ego hodiē genuī tē.^The Lord hath said to me: Thou art my son, this day have I begotten thee.
Postulā ā mē, et dabō tibī Gentēs hērēditātem tuam, et possessiōnem tuam terminōs terrae.^Ask of me, and I will give thee the Gentiles for thy inheritance, and the utmost parts of the earth for thy possession.
Regēs eōs in virgā ferreā, et tamquam vās figulī confringēs eōs.^Thou shalt rule them with a rod of iron, and shalt break them in pieces like a potter's vessel.
Et nunc, rēgēs, intellegite; ērudīminī, quī jūdicātis terram.^And now, O ye kings, understand; receive instruction, you that judge the earth.
Servīte Dominō in timōre, et exsultāte eī cum tremōre.^Serve ye the Lord with fear, and rejoice unto him with trembling.
Apprehendite disciplīnam, nēquandō īrāscātur Dominus, et pereātis dē viā jūstā.^Embrace discipline, lest at any time the Lord be angry, and you perish from the just way.
Cum exārserit in brevī īra ejus, beātī omnēs quī confīdunt in eō.^When his wrath shall be kindled in a short time, blessed are all they that trust in him.
