Verba mea auribus percipe, Domine; intellege clāmōrem meum.^Give ear, O Lord, to my words, understand my cry.
Intende vōcī ōrātiōnis meae, rēx meus et Deus meus.^Hearken to the voice of my prayer, O my King and my God.
Quoniam ad tē ōrābō, Domine; manē exaudiēs vōcem meam.^For to thee will I pray; O Lord, in the morning thou shalt hear my voice.
Manē astābō tibī et vidēbō, quoniam nōn Deus volēns inīquitātem tū es.^In the morning I will stand before thee, and I will see, because thou art not a God that willest iniquity.
Neque habitābit jūxtā tē malignus, neque permanēbunt injūstī ante oculōs tuōs.^Neither shall the wicked dwell near thee, nor shall the unjust abide before thy eyes.
Ōdistī omnēs quī operantur inīquitātem; perdēs omnēs, quī loquuntur mendācium. Virum sanguinum et dolōsum abōminābitur Dominus.^Thou hatest all the workers of iniquity; thou wilt destroy all that speak a lie. The bloody and the deceitful man the Lord will abhor.
Ego autem in multitūdine misericordiae tuae, introībō in domum tuam; adōrābō ad templum sānctum tuum in timōre tuō.^But as for me in the multitude of thy mercy, I will come into thy house; I will worship towards thy holy temple, in thy fear.
Domine, dēdūc mē in jūstitiā tuā; propter inimīcōs meōs dīrige in conspectū tuō viam meam.^Conduct me, O Lord, in thy justice; because of my enemies, direct my way in thy sight.
Quoniam nōn est in ōre eōrum vēritās; cor eōrum vānum est.^For there is no truth in their mouth; their heart is vain.
Sepulchrum patēns est guttur eōrum; linguīs suīs dolōsē agēbant; jūdicā illōs, Deus. Dēcidant ā cōgitātiōnibus suīs; secundum multitūdinem impietātum eōrum expelle eōs, quoniam irrītāvērunt tē, Domine.^Their throat is an open sepulchre; they dealt deceitfully with their tongues; judge them, O God. Let them fall from their devices; according to the multitude of their wickednesses cast them out, for they have provoked thee, O Lord.
Et laetentur omnēs quī spērant in tē; in aeternum exsultābunt, et habitābis in eīs. Et glōriābuntur in tē omnēs, quī dīligunt nōmen tuum,^But let all them be glad that hope in thee; they shall rejoice for ever, and thou shalt dwell in them. And all they that love thy name shall glory in thee,
quoniam tū benedīcēs jūstō. Domine, ut scūtō bonae voluntātis tuae corōnāstī nōs.^for thou wilt bless the just. O Lord, thou hast crowned us as with a shield of thy good will.
