Domine Deus meus, in tē spērāvī; salvum mē fac ex omnibus persequentibus mē, et līberā mē,^O Lord my God, in thee have I put my trust; save me from all them that persecute me, and deliver me.
nēquandō rapiat ut leō animam meam, dum nōn est quī redimat, neque quī salvum faciat.^Lest at any time he seize upon my soul like a lion, while there is no one to redeem me, nor to save.
Domine Deus meus, sī fēcī istud, sī est inīquitās in manibus meīs,^O Lord, my God, if I have done this thing, if there be iniquity in my hands,
sī reddidī retribuentibus mihī mala, dēcidam meritō ab inimīcīs meīs inānis.^if I have rendered to them that repaid me evils, let me deservedly fall empty before my enemies.
Persequātur inimīcus animam meam, et comprehendat, et conculcet in terrā vītam meam, et glōriam meam in pulverem dēdūcat.^Let the enemy pursue my soul, and take it, and tread down my life, on the earth, and bring down my glory to the dust.
Exsurge, Domine, in īrā tuā; exaltāre in fīnibus inimīcōrum meōrum, et exsurge, Domine Deus meus, in praeceptō quod mandāstī.^Rise up, O Lord, in thy anger; be thou exalted in the borders of my enemies, and arise, O Lord my God, in the precept which thou hast commanded.
Et sinagōga populōrum circumdabit tē, et propter hanc in altum regredere.^And a congregation of people shall surround thee, and for their sakes return thou on high.
Dominus jūdicat populōs. Jūdicā mē, Domine, secundum jūstitiam meam, et secundum innocentiam meam super mē.^The Lord judgeth the people. Judge me, O Lord, according to my justice, and according to my innocence in me.
Consūmētur nēquitia peccātōrum, et dīrigēs jūstum, scrūtans corda et rēnēs Deus.^The wickedness of sinners shall be brought to nought, and thou shalt direct the just, the searcher of hearts and reins is God.
Jūstum adjūtōrium meum ā Dominō, quī salvōs facit rēctōs corde.^Just is my help from the Lord; who saveth the upright of heart.
Deus jūdex jūstus, fortis, et patiens; numquid īrāscitur per singulōs diēs?^God is a just judge, strong and patient; whether he be angred throughout each day?
Nisi conversī fueritis, gladium suum vibrābit; arcum suum tetendit, et parāvit illum.^Except you will be converted, he will brandish his sword; he hath bent his bow, and made it ready.
Et in eō parāvit vāsa mortis, sagittās suās ārdentibus effēcit.^And in it he hath prepared to instruments of death, he hath made ready his arrows for them that burn.
Ecce parturīvit injūstitiam; concēpit dolōrem, et peperit inīquitātem.^Behold he hath been in labour with injustice; he hath conceived sorrow, and brought forth iniquity.
Lacum aperuit, et effōdit eum, et incidit in foveam, quam fēcit.^He hath opened a pit and dug it, and he is fallen into the hole, which he made.
Convertētur dolor ejus in caput ejus, et in verticem ipsīus inīquitās ejus dēscendet.^His sorrow shall be turned on his own head, and his iniquity shall come down upon his crown.
Confitēbor Dominō secundum jūstitiam ejus, et psallam nōminī Dominī altissimī.^I will give glory to the Lord according to his justice, and will sing to the name of the Lord the most high.
