Confitēbor tibī, Domine, in tōtō corde meō; nārrābō omnia mīrābilia tua.^I will give praise to thee, O Lord, with my whole heart; I will relate all thy wonders.
Laetābor et exsultābō in tē; psallam nōminī tuō, Altissime,^I will be glad, and rejoice in thee; I will sing to thy name, O thou most high.
In convertendō inimīcum meum retrōrsum; infirmābuntur, et perībunt ā faciē tuā.^When my enemy shall be turned back; they shall be weakened, and perish before thy face.
Quoniam fēcistī jūdicium meum et causam meam; sēdistī super thronum quī jūdicās jūstitiam.^For thou hast maintained my judgment and my cause; thou hast sat on the throne, who judgest justice.
Increpāstī Gentēs, et perīvit impius; nōmen eōrum dēlēstī in aeternum et in saeculum saeculī.^Thou hast rebuked the Gentiles, and the wicked one hath perished; thou hast blotted out their name for ever and ever.
Inimīcī dēfēcērunt frameae in fīnem, et cīvitātēs eōrum dēstrūxistī. Perīvit memoria eōrum cum sonitū;^The swords of the enemy have failed unto the end, and their cities thou hast destroyed. Their memory hath perished with a noise;
et Dominus in aeternum permanet. Parāvit in jūdiciō thronum suum,^but the Lord remaineth for ever. He hath prepared his throne in judgment,
et ipse jūdicābit orbem terrae in aequitāte; jūdicābit populōs in jūstitiā.^and he shall judge the world in equity; he shall judge the people in justice.
Et factus est Dominus refugium pauperī; adjūtor in opportūnitātibus, in trībulātiōne.^And the Lord is become a refuge for the poor; a helper in due time in tribulation.
Et spērent in tē quī nōvērunt nōmen tuum, quoniam nōn dērelīquistī quaerentēs tē, Domine.^And let them trust in thee who know thy name, for thou hast not forsaken them that seek thee, O Lord.
Psallite Dominō quī habitat in Siōn; adnūntiem inter Gentēs studia ejus,^Sing ye to the Lord, who dwelleth in Sion; declare his ways among the Gentiles,
quoniam requīrēns sanguinem eōrum recordātus est; nōn est oblītus clāmōrem pauperum.^for requiring their blood, he hath remembered them; he hath not forgotten the cry of the poor.
Miserēre meī, Domine; vidē humilitātem meam dē inimīcīs meīs,^Have mercy on me, O Lord; see my humiliation which I suffer from my enemies,
quī exaltās mē dē portīs mortis, ut adnūntiem omnēs laudātiōnēs tuās in portīs fīliae Siōn;^thou that liftest me up from the gates of death, that I may declare all thy praises in the gates of the daughter of Sion;
exsultābō in salūtārī tuō. Infīxae sunt Gentēs in interitū, quem fēcērunt; in laqueō istō, quem abscondērunt comprehēnsus est pēs eōrum.^I will rejoice in thy salvation. The Gentiles have stuck fast in the destruction which they prepared; their foot hath been taken in the very snare which they hid.
Cognōscētur Dominus jūdicia faciēns; in operibus manuum suārum comprehēnsus est peccātor.^The Lord shall be known when he executeth judgments; the sinner hath been caught in the works of his own hands.
Convertantur peccātōrēs in infernum, omnēs gentēs quae oblīvīscuntur Deum.^The wicked shall be turned into hell, all the nations that forget God.
Quoniam nōn in fīnem oblīviō erit pauperis; patientia pauperum nōn perībit in fīnem.^For the poor man shall not be forgotten to the end; the patience of the poor shall not perish for ever.
Exsurge, Domine; nōn confortētur homō; jūdicentur Gentēs in conspectū tuō.^Arise, O Lord; let not man be strengthened; let the Gentiles be judged in thy sight.
Constitue, Domine, lēgislātōrem super eōs, ut sciant Gentēs quoniam hominēs sunt.^Appoint, O Lord, a lawgiver over them, that the Gentiles may know themselves to be but men.
Ut quid, Domine, recessistī longē; dēspicis in opportūnitātibus, in trībulātiōne?^Why, O Lord, hast thou retired afar off? why dost thou slight us in our wants, in the time of trouble?
Dum superbit impius, incenditur pauper; comprehenduntur in consiliīs quibus cōgitant.^Whilst the wicked man is proud, the poor is set on fire; they are caught in the counsels which they devise.
Quoniam laudātur peccātor in dēsīderiīs animae suae, et inīquus benedīcitur.^For the sinner is praised in the desires of his soul, and the unjust man is blessed.
Exacerbāvit Dominum peccātor; secundum multitūdinem īrae suae nōn quaeret; nōn est Deus in conspectū ejus.^The sinner hath provoked the Lord; according to the multitude of his wrath he will not seek him; God is not before his eyes.
Inquinātae sunt viae illīus in omnī tempore; auferuntur jūdicia tua ā faciē ejus; omnium inimīcōrum suōrum dominābitur.^His ways are filthy at all times; thy judgments are removed from his sight; he shall rule over all his enemies.
Dīxit enim in corde suō: Nōn movēbor ā generātiōne in generātiōnem, sine malō.^For he hath said in his heart: I shall not be moved from generation to generation, and shall be without evil.
Cujus maledictiōne ōs plēnum est, et amāritūdine, et dolō; sub linguā ejus labor et dolor.^His mouth is full of cursing, and of bitterness, and of deceit; under his tongue are labor and sorrow.
Sedet in insidiīs cum dīvitibus in occultīs, ut interficiat innocentem.^He sits in ambush with the rich in private places, that he may kill the innocent.
Oculī ejus in pauperem respiciunt; insidiātur in absconditō, quasi leō in spēluncā suā. Insidiātur ut rapiat pauperem; rapere pauperem dum attrahit eum.^His eyes are upon the poor man; he lieth in wait in secret like a lion in his den. He lieth in ambush that he may catch the poor man; to catch the poor, whilst he draweth him to him.
In laqueō suō humiliābit eum; inclīnābit sē, et cadet cum dominātus fuerit pauperum.^In his net he will bring him down, he will crouch and fall, when he shall have power over the poor.
Dīxit enim in corde suō: Oblītus est Deus; āvertit faciem suam, nē videat in fīnem.^For he hath said in his heart: God hath forgotten, he hath turned away his face not to see to the end.
Exsurge, Domine Deus; exaltētur manus tū; nē oblīvīscāris pauperum.^Arise, O Lord God; let thy hand be exalted; forget not the poor.
Propter quid irrītāvit impius Deum? Dīxit enim in corde suō: Nōn requīret.^Wherefore hath the wicked provoked God? For he hath said in his heart: He will not require it.
Vidēs, quoniam tū labōrem et dolōrem consīderās, ut trādās eōs in manūs tuās. Tibī dērelictus est pauper; orfanō tū eris adjūtor.^Thou seest it, for thou considerest labour and sorrow, that thou mayst deliver them into thy hands. To thee is the poor man left; thou wilt be a helper to the orphan.
Contere brāchium peccātōris et malignī; quaerētur peccātum illīus, et nōn inveniētur.^Break thou the arm of the sinner and of the malignant; his sin shall be sought, and shall not be found.
Dominus rēgnābit in aeternum, et in saeculum saeculī; perībitis Gentēs dē terrā illīus.^The Lord shall reign to eternity, yea, for ever and ever; ye Gentiles shall perish from his land.
Dēsīderium pauperum exaudīvit Dominus; praeparātiōnem cordis eōrum audīvit auris tua.^The Lord hath heard the desire of the poor; thy ear hath heard the preparation of their heart.
Jūdicāre pūpillō et humilī, ut nōn appōnat ultrā magnificāre sē homō super terram.^To judge for the fatherless and for the humble, that man may no more presume to magnify himself upon earth.
