Dīxit insapiens in corde suō: Nōn est Deus. Corruptī sunt, et abōminābilēs factī sunt in studiīs suīs; nōn est quī faciat bonum, nōn est usque ad ūnum.^The fool hath said in his heart: There is no God. They are corrupt, and are become abominable in their pursuits; there is none that doth good, no not one.
Dominus dē caelō prōspexit super fīliōs hominum, ut videat sī est intellegens, aut requīrens Deum.^The Lord hath looked down from heaven upon the children of men, to see if there be any that understand and seek God.
Omnēs dēclīnāvērunt, simul inūtilēs factī sunt. Nōn est quī faciat bonum, nōn est usque ad ūnum.^They are all gone aside, they are become unprofitable together. There is none that doth good, no not one.
Sepulchrum patens est guttur eōrum; linguīs suīs dolōsē agēbant. Venēnum aspidum sub labiīs eōrum, quōrum ōs maledictiōne et amāritūdine plēnum est.^Their throat is an open sepulchre; with their tongues they acted deceitfully; the poison of asps is under their lips. Their mouth is full of cursing and bitterness.
Vēlōcēs pedēs eōrum ad effundendum sanguinem. Contrītiō et infēlīcitās in viīs eōrum, et viam pācis nōn cognōvērunt; nōn est timor Deī ante oculōs eōrum.^Their feet are swift to shed blood. Destruction and unhappiness in their ways, and the way of peace they have not known; there is no fear of God before their eyes.
Nōnne cognōscent omnēs quī operantur inīquitātem, quī dēvorant plēbem meam sīcut ēscam pānis?^Shall not all they know that work iniquity, who devour my people as the food of bread?
Dominum nōn invocāvērunt; illīc trepidāvērunt timōre, ubī nōn erat timor.^They have not called upon the Lord; there have they trembled for fear, where there was no fear.
Quoniam Dominus in generātiōne jūstā est; consilium inopis confūdistis, quoniam Dominus spēs ejus est.^For the Lord is in the just generation; you have confounded the counsel of the poor man, but the Lord is his hope.
Quis dabit ex Sīon salūtāre Isrāhel? Cum āverterit Dominus captīvitātem plēbis suae, exsultābit Jācob, et laetābitur Isrāhel.^Who shall give out of Sion the salvation of Israel? When the Lord shall have turned away the captivity of his people, Jacob shall rejoice, and Israel shall be glad.
