Conservā mē, Domine, quoniam spērāvī in tē.^Preserve me, O Lord, for I have put my trust in thee.
Dīxī Dominō: Deus meus es tū, quoniam bonōrum meōrum nōn egēs.^I have said to the Lord, thou art my God, for thou hast no need of my goods.
Sanctīs quī sunt in terrā ejus, mīrificāvit omnēs voluntātēs meās in eīs.^To the saints who are in his land, he hath made wonderful all my desires in them.
Multiplicātae sunt infirmitātēs eōrum; posteā accelerāvērunt. Nōn congregābō conventicula eōrum dē sanguinibus, nec memor erō nōminum eōrum per labia mea.^Their infirmities were multiplied; afterwards they made haste. I will not gather together their meetings for bloodofferings, nor will I be mindful of their names by my lips.
Dominus pars hērēditātis meae, et calicis meī; tū es, quī restituēs hērēditātem meam mihī.^The Lord is the portion of my inheritance and of my cup; it is thou that wilt restore my inheritance to me.
Fūnēs cecidērunt mihī in praeclārīs; etenim hērēditās mea praeclāra est mihī.^The lines are fallen unto me in goodly places; for my inheritance is excellent to me.
Benedīcam Dominum quī tribuit mihī intellēctum; insuper et usque ad noctem increpuērunt mē rēnēs meī.^I will bless the Lord who hath given me understanding; moreover also my reins have corrected me even till night.
Prōvidēbam Dominum in conspectū meō semper, quoniam ā dextrīs est mihī, nē commovear.^I set the Lord always in my sight, for he is at my right hand, that I be not moved.
Propter hoc laetātum est cor meum, et exsultāvit lingua mea; insuper et carō mea requiēscet in spē.^On account of this my heart hath been glad, and my tongue hath rejoiced; moreover also my flesh shall rest in hope.
Quoniam nōn dērelinquēs animam meam in infernō, nec dabis sanctum tuum vidēre corruptiōnem.^Because thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, nor wilt thou give thy holy one to see corruption.
Notās mihī fēcistī viās vītae; adimplēbis mē laetitiā cum vultū tuō; dēlectātiōnēs in dexterā tuā usque in fīnem.^Thou hast made known to me the ways of life, thou shalt fill me with joy with thy countenance; at thy right hand are delights even to the end.
