Exaudī, Domine, jūstitiam meam; intende dēprecātiōnem meam. Auribus percipe ōrātiōnem meam, nōn in labiīs dolōsīs.^Hear, O Lord, my justice; attend to my supplication. Give ear unto my prayer, which proceedeth not from deceitful lips.
Dē vultū tuō jūdicium meum prōdeat; oculī tuī videant aequitātēs.^Let my judgment come forth from thy countenance; let thy eyes behold the things that are equitable.
Probāstī cor meum, et vīsitāstī nocte; igne mē exāmināstī, et nōn est inventa in mē inīquitās.^Thou hast proved my heart, and visited it by night; thou hast tried me by fire, and iniquity hath not been found in me.
Ut nōn loquātur ōs meum opera hominum; propter verba labiōrum tuōrum, ego cūstōdīvī viās dūrās.^That my mouth may not speak the works of men; for the sake of the words of thy lips, I have kept hard ways.
Perfice gressūs meōs in sēmitīs tuīs, ut nōn moveantur vestīgia mea.^Perfect thou my goings in thy paths, that my footsteps be not moved.
Ego clāmāvī, quoniam exaudīvistī mē, Deus; inclīnā aurem tuam mihī, et exaudī verba mea.^I have cried to thee, for thou hast heard me, O God; incline thy ear unto me, and hear my words.
Mīrificā misericordiās tuās, quī salvōs facīs spērantēs in tē.^Magnify thy mercies, thou who savest them that trust in thee.
Ā resistentibus dexterae tuae cūstōdī mē, ut pūpillam oculī. Sub umbrā ālārum tuārum prōtege mē,^From them that resist thy right hand keep me, as the apple of thy eye. Protect me under the shadow of thy wings,
ā faciē impiōrum quī mē afflīxērunt. Inimīcī meī animam meam circumdedērunt;^from the face of the wicked who have afflicted me. My enemies have surrounded my soul;
adipem suum conclūsērunt; ōs eōrum locūtum est superbiam.^they have shut up their fat; their mouth hath spoken proudly.
Prōjicientēs mē nunc circumdedērunt mē; oculōs suōs statuērunt dēclīnāre in terram.^They have cast me forth, and now they have surrounded me; they have set their eyes bowing down to the earth.
Suscēpērunt mē sīcut leō parātus ad praedam, et sīcut catulus leōnis habitans in abditīs.^They have taken me as a lion prepared for the prey, and as a young lion dwelling in secret places.
Exsurge, Domine; praevenī eum, et supplantā eum; ēripe animam meam ab impiō; frameam tuam ab inimīcīs manūs tuae.^Arise, O Lord; disappoint him, and supplant him; deliver my soul from the wicked one; thy sword from the enemies of thy hand.
Domine, ā paucīs dē terrā dīvide eōs in vītā eōrum; dē absconditīs tuīs adimplētus est venter eōrum. Saturātī sunt fīliīs, et dīmīsērunt reliquiās suās parvulīs suīs.^O Lord, divide them from the few of the earth in their life; their belly is filled from thy hidden stores. They are full of children, and they have left to their little ones the rest of their substance.
Ego autem in jūstitiā appārēbō conspectuī tuō; satiābor cum appāruerit glōria tua.^But as for me, I will appear before thy sight in justice; I shall be satisfied when thy glory shall appear.
