Dīligam tē, Domine, fortitūdō mea.^I will love thee, O Lord, my strength.
Dominus firmāmentum meum, et refugium meum, et līberātor meus. Deus meus adjūtor meus, et spērābō in eum; prōtēctor meus, et cornū salūtis meae, et susceptor meus.^The Lord is my firmament, my refuge, and my deliverer. My God is my helper, and in him will I put my trust; my protector, and the horn of my salvation, and my support.
Laudans invocābō Dominum, et ab inimīcīs meīs salvus erō.^Praising, I will call upon the Lord, and I shall be saved from my enemies.
Circumdedērunt mē dolōrēs mortis, et torrentēs inīquitātis conturbāvērunt mē.^The sorrows of death surrounded me, and the torrents of iniquity troubled me.
Dolōrēs infernī circumdedērunt mē; praeoccupāvērunt mē laqueī mortis.^The sorrows of hell encompassed me; the snares of death prevented me.
In trībulātiōne meā invocāvī Dominum, et ad Deum meum clāmāvī; exaudīvit dē templō sanctō suō vōcem meam, et clāmor meus in conspectū ejus introībit in aurēs ejus.^In my affliction I called upon the Lord, and I cried to my God; he heard my voice from his holy temple, and my cry before him will enter into his ears.
Commōta est, et contremuit terra; fundāmenta montium conturbāta sunt, et commōta sunt, quoniam īrātus est eīs.^The earth shook and trembled; the foundations of the mountains were troubled, and were moved, because he was angry with them.
Ascendit fūmus in īrā ejus, et ignis ā faciē ejus exarsit; carbōnēs succensī sunt ab eō.^There went up a smoke in his wrath, and a fire flamed from his face; coals were kindled by it.
Inclīnāvit caelōs, et dēscendit, et cālīgō sub pedibus ejus.^He bowed the heavens, and came down, and darkness was under his feet.
Et ascendit super cherubim, et volāvit; volāvit super pennās ventōrum.^And he ascended upon the cherubim, and he flew; he flew upon the wings of the winds.
Et posuit tenebrās latibulum suum, in circumitū ejus tabernāculum ejus; tenebrōsa aqua in nūbibus āeris.^And he made darkness his cover, his pavilion round about him; dark water in the clouds of the air.
Prae fulgōre in conspectū ejus nūbēs transīvērunt; grandō et carbōnēs ignis.^At the brightness that was before him the clouds passed; hail and coals of fire.
Et intonuit dē caelō Dominus, et Altissimus dedit vōcem suam; grandō et carbōnēs ignis.^And the Lord thundered from heaven, and the Highest gave his voice; hail and coals of fire.
Et mīsit sagittās suās, et dissipāvit eōs; fulgura multiplicāvit, et conturbāvit eōs.^And he sent forth his arrows, and he scattered them; he multiplied lightnings, and troubled them.
Et appāruērunt fontēs aquārum, et revēlāta sunt fundāmenta orbis terrārum; ab increpātiōne tuā, Domine, ab inspīrātiōne spīritūs īrae tuae.^Then the fountains of waters appeared, and the foundations of the world were discovered; at thy rebuke, O Lord, at the blast of the spirit of thy wrath.
Mīsit dē summō, et accēpit mē, et assūmpsit mē dē aquīs multīs.^He sent from on high, and took me, and received me out of many waters.
Ēripuit mē dē inimīcīs meīs fortissimīs, et ab hīs quī ōdērunt mē, quoniam confortātī sunt super mē.^He delivered me from my strongest enemies, and from them that hated me, for they were too strong for me.
Praevēnērunt mē in diē afflīctiōnis meae, et factus est Dominus prōtēctor meus.^They prevented me in the day of my affliction, and the Lord became my protector.
Et ēdūxit mē in lātitūdinem; salvum mē fēcit, quoniam voluit mē.^And he brought me forth into a large place; he saved me, because he was well pleased with me.
Et retribuet mihī Dominus secundum jūstitiam meam, et secundum pūritātem manuum meārum retribuet mihī,^And the Lord will reward me according to my justice; and will repay me according to the cleanness of my hands,
quia cūstōdīvī viās Dominī, nec impiē gessī ā Deō meō,^because I have kept the ways of the Lord, and have not done wickedly against my God,
quoniam omnia jūdicia ejus in conspectū meō, et jūstitiās ejus nōn repulī ā mē.^for all his judgments are in my sight, and his justices I have not put away from me.
Et erō immaculātus cum eō, et observābō mē ab inīquitāte meā.^And I shall be spotless with him, and shall keep myself from my iniquity.
Et retribuet mihī Dominus secundum jūstitiam meam, et secundum pūritātem manuum meārum in conspectū oculōrum ejus.^And the Lord will reward me according to my justice, and according to the cleanness of my hands before his eyes.
Cum sanctō sanctus eris, et cum virō innocente innocens eris,^With the holy thou wilt be holy, and with the innocent man thou wilt be innocent,
et cum ēlectō ēlectus eris, et cum perversō perverteris.^and with the elect thou wilt be elect, and with the perverse thou wilt be perverted.
Quoniam tū populum humilem salvum faciēs, et oculōs superbōrum humiliābis.^For thou wilt save the humble people, but wilt bring down the eyes of the proud.
Quoniam tū illūminās lucernam meam, Domine; Deus meus, illūminā tenebrās meās.^For thou lightest my lamp, O Lord; O my God, enlighten my darkness.
Quoniam in tē ēripiar ā tentātiōne, et in Deō meō transgrediar mūrum.^For by thee I shall be delivered from temptation, and through my God I shall go over a wall.
Deus meus, impollūta via ejus; ēloquia Dominī igne exāminātā; prōtēctor est omnium spērantium in sē.^As for my God, his way is undefiled; the words of the Lord are fire-tried; he is the protector of all that trust in him.
Quoniam quis Deus praeter Dominum? Aut quis Deus praeter Deum nostrum?^For who is God but the Lord? Or who is God but our God?
Deus quī praecīnxit mē virtūte, et posuit immaculātam viam meam;^God, who hath girt me with strength, and made my way blameless;
quī perfēcit pedēs meōs tamquam cervōrum, et super excelsa statuens mē;^who hath made my feet like the feet of harts, and who setteth me upon high places;
quī docet manūs meās ad praelium, et posuistī, ut arcum aereum, brāchia mea.^who teacheth my hands to war, and thou hast made, like a brazen bow, my arms.
Et dedistī mihī prōtēctiōnem salūtis tuae, et dextera tua suscēpit mē, et disciplīna tua corrēxit mē in fīnem, et disciplīna tua ipsa mē docēbit.^And thou hast given me the protection of thy salvation, and thy right hand hath held me up, and thy discipline hath corrected me unto the end, and thy discipline itself shall teach me.
Dīlātāstī gressūs meōs subtus mē, et nōn sunt infirmāta vestīgia mea.^Thou hast enlarged my steps under me, and my feet are not weakened.
Persequar inimīcōs meōs, et comprehendam illōs, et nōn convertar dōnec dēficiant.^I will pursue after my enemies, and overtake them, and I will not turn again till they are consumed.
Confringam illōs, nec poterunt stāre; cadent subtus pedēs meōs.^I will break them, and they shall not be able to stand; they shall fall under my feet.
Et praecīnxistī mē virtūte ad bellum, et supplantāstī insurgentēs in mē subtus mē.^And thou hast girded me with strength unto battle, and hast subdued under me them that rose up against me.
Et inimīcōs meōs dedistī mihī dorsum, et odientēs mē disperdidistī.^And thou hast made my enemies turn their back upon me, and hast destroyed them that hated me.
Clāmāvērunt, nec erat quī salvōs faceret, ad Dominum, nec exaudīvit eōs.^They cried, but there was none to save them, to the Lord, but he heard them not.
Et comminuam eōs, ut pulverem ante faciem ventī; ut lutum platēārum dēlēbō eōs.^And I shall beat them as small as the dust before the wind; like the dirt of the streets I shall bring them to nought.
Ēripiēs mē dē contrādictiōnibus populī; constituēs mē in caput Gentium.^Thou wilt deliver me from the contradictions of the people; thou wilt make me head of the Gentiles.
Populus quem nōn cognōvī, servīvit mihī; in audītū auris obēdīvit mihī.^A people which I knew not, hath served me; at the hearing of the ear they have obeyed me.
Fīliī aliēnī mentītī sunt mihī, fīliī aliēnī inveterātī sunt, et claudicāvērunt ā sēmitīs suīs.^The children that are strangers have lied to me, strange children have faded away, and have halted from their paths.
Vīvit Dominus, et benedictus Deus meus, et exaltētur Deus salūtis meae.^The Lord liveth, and blessed be my God, and let the God of my salvation be exalted.
Deus, quī dās vindictās mihī, et subdis populōs sub mē; līberātor meus dē inimīcīs meīs īrācundīs.^O God, who avengest me, and subduest the people under me; my deliverer from my enraged enemies.
Et ab insurgentibus in mē exaltābis mē; ā virō inīquō ēripiēs mē.^And thou wilt lift me up above them that rise up against me; from the unjust man thou wilt deliver me.
Proptereā confitēbor tibī in nātiōnibus, Domine, et nōminī tuō psalmum dīcam,^Therefore will I give glory to thee among the nations, O Lord, and I will sing a psalm to thy name,
magnificans salūtēs rēgis ejus, et faciens misericordiam chrīstō suō Dāvīd, et sēminī ejus usque in saeculum.^giving great deliverance to his king, and showing mercy to David his anointed, and to his seed for ever.
