Domine in virtūte tuā laetābitur rēx, et super salūtāre tuum exsultābit vehementer.^In thy strength, O Lord, the king shall joy; and in thy salvation he shall rejoice exceedingly.
Dēsīderium cordis ejus tribuistī eī, et voluntāte labiōrum ejus nōn fraudāstī eum.^Thou hast given him his heart's desire, and hast not withholden from him the will of his lips.
Quoniam praevēnistī eum in benedictiōnibus dulcēdinis; posuistī in capite ejus corōnam dē lapide pretiōsō.^For thou hast prevented him with blessings of sweetness; thou hast set on his head a crown of precious stones.
Vītam petīvit ā tē, et tribuistī eī longitūdinem diērum in saeculum, et in saeculum saeculī.^He asked life of thee, and thou hast given him length of days for ever and ever.
Magna est glōria ejus in salūtārī tuō; glōriam et magnum decōrem impōnēs super eum.^His glory is great in thy salvation; glory and great beauty shalt thou lay upon him.
Quoniam dabis eum in benedictiōnem in saeculum saeculī; laetificābis eum in gaudiō cum vultū tuō.^For thou shalt give him to be a blessing for ever and ever; thou shalt make him joyful in gladness with thy countenance.
Quoniam rēx spērat in Dominō, et in misericordiā Altissimī nōn commovēbitur.^For the king hopeth in the Lord, and through the mercy of the most High he shall not be moved.
Inveniātur manus tua omnibus inimīcīs tuīs; dextera tua inveniat omnēs, quī tē ōdērunt.^Let thy hand be found by all thy enemies; let thy right hand find out all them that hate thee.
Pōnēs eōs ut clībanum ignis in tempore vultūs tuī; Dominus in īrā suā conturbābit eōs, et dēvorābit eōs ignis.^Thou shalt make them as an oven of fire in the time of thy presence; the Lord shall trouble them in his wrath, and fire shall devour them.
Frūctum eōrum dē terrā perdēs, et sēmen eōrum ā fīliīs hominum.^Their fruit shalt thou destroy from the earth, and their seed from among the children of men.
Quoniam dēclīnāvērunt in tē mala; cōgitāvērunt consilia quae nōn potuērunt stabilīre.^For they have intended evils against thee; they have devised counsels which they have not been able to establish.
Quoniam pōnēs eōs dorsum; in reliquiīs tuīs praeparābis vultum eōrum.^For thou shalt make them turn their back; in thy remnants thou shalt prepare their face.
Exaltāre Domine in virtūte tuā; cantābimus et psallēmus virtūtēs tuās.^Be thou exalted, O Lord, in thy own strength; we will sing and praise thy power.
