Deus, Deus meus, respice in mē; quārē mē dērelīquistī? Longē ā salūte meā verba dēlictōrum meōrum.^O God my God, look upon me; why hast thou forsaken me? Far from my salvation are the words of my sins.
Deus meus clāmābō per diem, et nōn exaudiēs, et nocte, et nōn ad insapientiam mihī.^O my God, I shall cry by day, and thou wilt not hear, and by night, and it shall not be reputed as folly in me.
Tū autem in sanctō habitās, laus Isrāhel.^But thou dwellest in the holy place, the praise of Israel.
In tē spērāvērunt patrēs nostrī; spērāvērunt, et līberāstī eōs.^In thee have our fathers hoped; they have hoped, and thou hast delivered them.
Ad tē clāmāvērunt, et salvī factī sunt; in tē spērāvērunt, et nōn sunt confūsī.^They cried to thee, and they were saved; they trusted in thee, and were not confounded.
Ego autem sum vermis, et nōn homō; opprobrium hominum, et abjectiō plēbis.^But I am a worm, and no man; the reproach of men, and the outcast of the people.
Omnēs videntēs mē, dērīsērunt mē; locūtī sunt labiīs, et mōvērunt caput.^All they that saw me have laughed me to scorn; they have spoken with the lips, and wagged the head.
Spērāvit in Dominō, ēripiat eum; salvum faciat eum, quoniam vult eum.^He hoped in the Lord, let him deliver him; let him save him, seeing he delighteth in him.
Quoniam tū es, quī extrāxistī mē dē ventre; spēs mea ab ūberibus mātris meae.^For thou art he that hast drawn me out of the womb; my hope from the breasts of my mother.
In tē prōiectus sum ex uterō; dē ventre mātris meae Deus meus es tū;^I was cast upon thee from the womb; from my mother's womb thou art my God;
nē discesserīs ā mē, quoniam trībulātiō proxima est, quoniam nōn est quī adjuvet.^depart not from me, for tribulation is very near, for there is none to help me.
Circumdedērunt mē vitulī multī; taurī pinguēs obsēdērunt mē.^Many calves have surrounded me; fat bulls have besieged me.
Aperuērunt super mē os suum, sīcut leō rapiens et rugiens.^They have opened their mouths against me, as a lion ravening and roaring.
Sīcut aqua effūsus sum, et dispersa sunt omnia ossa mea. Factum est cor meum tamquam cēra liquēscens in mediō ventris meī.^I am poured out like water, and all my bones are scattered. My heart is become like wax melting in the midst of my bowels.
Āruit tamquam testa virtūs mea, et lingua mea adhaesit faucibus meīs, et in pulverem mortis dēdūxistī mē.^My strength is dried up like a potsherd, and my tongue hath cleaved to my jaws, and thou hast brought me down into the dust of death.
Quoniam circumdedērunt mē canēs multī; concilium malignantium obsēdit mē. Fōdērunt manūs meās et pedēs meōs;^For many dogs have encompassed me; the council of the malignant hath besieged me. They have dug my hands and feet;
dīnumerāvērunt omnia ossa mea. Ipsī vērō consīderāvērunt et inspexērunt mē.^they have numbered all my bones. But they have looked and stared upon me.
Dīvīsērunt sibī vestīmenta mea, et super vestem meam mīsērunt sortem.^They parted my garments amongst them, and upon my vesture they cast lots.
Tū autem Domine nē ēlongāverīs auxilium tuum ā mē; ad dēfensiōnem meam conspice.^But thou, O Lord, remove not thy help to a distance from me; look towards my defence.
Ērue ā frameā, Deus, animam meam, et dē manū canis ūnicam meam.^Deliver, O God, my soul from the sword, and my only one from the hand of the dog.
Salvā mē ex ōre leōnis, et ā cornibus ūnicornium humilitātem meam.^Save me from the lion's mouth, and my lowness from the horns of the unicorns.
Narrābō nōmen tuum frātribus meīs; in mediō ecclēsiae laudābō tē.^I will declare thy name to my brethren; in the midst of the church will I praise thee.
Quī timētis Dominum laudāte eum; ūniversum sēmen Jācob glōrificāte eum.^Ye that fear the Lord, praise him; all ye the seed of Jacob, glorify him.
Timeat eum omne sēmen Isrāhel, quoniam nōn sprēvit, neque dēspexit dēprecātiōnem pauperis, nec āvertit faciem suam ā mē, et cum clāmārem ad eum exaudīvit mē.^Let all the seed of Israel fear him, because he hath not slighted nor despised the supplication of the poor man. neither hath he turned away his face from me, and when I cried to him he heard me.
Apud tē laus mea in ecclēsiā magnā; vōta mea reddam in conspectū timentium eum.^With thee is my praise in a great church; I will pay my vows in the sight of them that fear him.
Edent pauperēs, et saturābuntur, et laudābunt Dominum quī requīrunt eum; vīvent corda eōrum in saeculum saeculī.^The poor shall eat, and they shall be filled, and they shall praise the Lord that seek him; their hearts shall live for ever and ever.
Reminīscentur et convertentur ad Dominum ūniversī fīnēs terrae, et adōrābunt in conspectū ejus ūniversae familiae Gentium.^All the ends of the earth shall remember, and shall be converted to the Lord, and all the kindreds of the Gentiles shall adore in his sight.
Quoniam Dominī est rēgnum, et ipse dominābitur Gentium.^For the kingdom is the Lord's, and he shall have dominion over the nations.
Mandūcāvērunt et adōrāvērunt omnēs pinguēs terrae; in conspectū ejus cadent omnēs quī dēscendunt in terram.^All the fat ones of the earth have eaten and have adored; all they that go down to the earth shall fall before him.
Et anima mea illī vīvet, et sēmen meum serviet ipsī.^And to him my soul shall live, and my seed shall serve him.
Adnuntiābitur Dominō generātiō ventūra, et adnuntiābunt caelī jūstitiam ejus populō quī nāscētur, quem fēcit Dominus.^There shall be declared to the Lord a generation to come, and the heavens shall show forth his justice to a people that shall be born, which the Lord hath made.
