Dominus illūminātiō mea et salūs mea; quem timēbō? Dominus prōtector vītae meae; ā quō trepidābō?^The Lord is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? The Lord is the protector of my life; of whom shall I be afraid?
Dum appropiant super mē nocentēs, ut edant carnēs meās, quī trībulant mē et inimīcī meī, ipsī infirmātī sunt et cecidērunt.^Whilst the wicked draw near against me, so as to eat my flesh, they that trouble me and my enemies, have been weakened and have fallen.
Sī consistant adversum mē castra, nōn timēbit cor meum. Sī exsurgat adversum mē praelium, in hōc ego spērābō.^If armies in camp should stand together against me, my heart shall not fear. If a battle should rise up against me, in this will I be confident.
Ūnam petīvī ā Dominō, hanc requīram, ut inhabitem in domō Dominī omnibus diēbus vītae meae; ut videam voluptātem Dominī, et vīsitem templum ejus.^One thing I have asked of the Lord, this will I seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life; that I may see the delight of the Lord, and may visit his temple.
Quoniam abscondit mē in tabernāculō suō; in diē malōrum prōtēxit mē in absconditō tabernāculī suī.^For he hath hidden me in his tabernacle; in the day of evils he hath protected me in the secret place of his tabernacle.
In petrā exaltāvit mē, et nunc exaltāvit caput meum super inimīcōs meōs. Circumīvī, et immolāvī in tabernāculō ejus hostiam vōciferātiōnis; cantābō, et psalmum dīcam Dominō.^He hath exalted me upon a rock, and now he hath lifted up my head above my enemies. I have gone round, and have offered up in his tabernacle a sacrifice of jubilation; I will sing, and I will recite a psalm to the Lord.
Exaudī, Domine, vōcem meam, quā clāmāvī ad tē; miserēre meī, et exaudī mē.^Hear, O Lord, my voice, with which I have cried to thee; have mercy on me and hear me.
Tibī dīxit cor meum; exquīsīvit tē faciēs mea. Faciem tuam, Domine, requīram.^My heart hath spoke to thee; my face hath sought thee. Thy face, O Lord, will I still seek.
Nē āvertās faciem tuam ā mē; nē dēclīnēs in īrā ā servō tuō. Adjūtor meus estō; nē dērelinquās mē, neque dēspiciās mē, Deus salūtāris meus.^Turn not away thy face from me; decline not in thy wrath from thy servant. Be thou my helper; forsake me not, and do not thou despise me, O God my Saviour.
Quoniam pāter meus et māter mea dērelīquērunt mē; Dominus autem assūmpsit mē.^For my father and my mother have left me; but the Lord hath taken me up.
Lēgem pōne mihī, Domine, in viā tuā, et dīrige mē in sēmitam rēctam propter inimīcōs meōs.^Set me, O Lord, a law in thy way, and guide me in the right path, because of my enemies.
Nē trādiderīs mē in animās trībulantium mē, quoniam insurrēxērunt in mē testēs inīquī, et mentīta est inīquitās sibī.^Deliver me not over to the will of them that trouble me, for unjust witnesses have risen up against me, and iniquity hath lied to itself.
Crēdō vidēre bona Dominī in terrā vīventium.^I believe to see the good things of the Lord in the land of the living.
Expectā Dominum; virīliter age, et confortētur cor tuum, et sustinē Dominum.^Expect the Lord; do manfully, and let thy heart take courage, and wait thou for the Lord.
