Exaltābō tē, Domine, quoniam suscēpistī mē; nec dēlectāstī inimīcōs meōs super mē.^I will extol thee, O Lord, for thou hast upheld me, and hast not made my enemies to rejoice over me.
Domine Deus meus, clāmāvī ad tē, et sānāstī mē.^O Lord my God, I have cried to thee, and thou hast healed me.
Domine ēdūxistī ab infernō animam meam; salvāstī mē ā dēscendentibus in lacum.^Thou hast brought forth, O Lord, my soul from hell; thou hast saved me from them that go down into the pit.
Psallite Dominō, sanctī ejus, et confitēminī memoriae sanctitātis ejus.^Sing to the Lord, O ye his saints, and give praise to the memory of his holiness.
Quoniam īra in indignātiōne ejus, et vīta in voluntāte ejus. Ad vesperum dēmorābitur flētus, et ad mātūtīnum laetitia.^For wrath is in his indignation, and life in his good will. In the evening weeping shall have place, and in the morning gladness.
Ego autem dīxī in abundantiā meā: Nōn movēbor in aeternum.^And in my abundance I said: I shall never be moved.
Domine, in voluntāte tuā, praestitistī decōrī meō virtūtem. Āvertistī faciem tuam ā mē, et factus sum conturbātus.^O Lord, in thy favour, thou gavest strength to my beauty. Thou turnedst away thy face from me, and I became troubled.
Ad tē, Domine, clāmābō, et ad Deum meum dēprecābor.^To thee, O Lord, will I cry, and I will make supplication to my God.
Quae ūtilitās in sanguine meō, dum dēscendō in corruptiōnem? Numquid confitēbitur tibī pulvis, aut adnuntiābit vēritātem tuam?^What profit is there in my blood, whilst I go down to corruption? Shall dust confess to thee, or declare thy truth?
Audīvit Dominus, et misertus est meī; Dominus factus est adjūtor meus.^The Lord hath heard, and hath had mercy on me; the Lord became my helper.
Convertistī plānctum meum in gaudium mihī; conscidistī saccum meum, et circumdedistī mē laetitiā,^Thou hast turned for me my mourning into joy; thou hast cut my sackcloth, and hast compassed me with gladness,
ut cantet tibī glōria mea, et nōn compungar; Domine Deus meus, in aeternum confitēbor tibī.^that my glory may sing to thee, and I may not regret; O Lord my God, I will give praise to thee for ever.
