Exsultāte, jūstī, in Dominō; rēctōs decet collaudātiō.^Rejoice, O ye just, in the Lord; praise becometh the upright.
Confitēminī Dominō in citharā; in psaltēriō decem chordārum psallite illī.^Give praise to the Lord on the harp; sing to him with the psaltery, the instrument of ten strings.
Cantāte eī canticum novum; bene psallite eī in vōciferātiōne.^Sing to him a new canticle, sing well unto him with a loud noise.
Quia rēctum est verbum Dominī, et omnia opera ejus in fidē.^For the word of the Lord is right, and all his works are done with faithfulness.
Dīligit misericordiam et jūdicium; misericordiā Dominī plēna est terra.^He loveth mercy and judgment; the earth is full of the mercy of the Lord.
Verbō Dominī caelī firmātī sunt, et spīritū ōris ejus omnis virtūs eōrum;^By the word of the Lord the heavens were established, and all the power of them by the spirit of his mouth;
congregans sīcut in utre aquās maris; pōnens in thēsaurīs abissōs.^gathering together the waters of the sea as in a vessel; laying up the depths in storehouses.
Timeat Dominum omnis terra; ab eō autem commoveantur omnēs inhabitantēs orbem.^Let all the earth fear the Lord; let then all the inhabitants of the world be in awe of him.
Quoniam ipse dīxit, et facta sunt; ipse mandāvit, et creāta sunt.^For he spoke and they were made; he commanded, and they were created.
Dominus dissipat consilia gentium; reprobat autem cōgitātiōnēs populōrum, et reprobat consilia prīncipum.^The Lord bringeth to nought the counsels of nations; moreover he rejecteth the devices of people, and casteth away the counsels of princes.
Consilium autem Dominī in aeternum manet; cōgitātiōnēs cordis ejus in generātiōne et generātiōnem.^But the counsel of the Lord standeth for ever; the thoughts of his heart to all generations.
Beāta gens cuijus est Dominus Deus ejus; populus quem ēlēgit in hērēditātem sibī.^Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord; the people whom he hath chosen for his inheritance.
Dē caelō respexit Dominus; vīdit omnēs fīliōs hominum.^The Lord hath looked from heaven; he hath beheld all the sons of men.
Dē praeparātō habitāculō suō respexit super omnēs quī habitant terram.^From his habitation which he hath prepared he hath looked upon all that dwell on the earth.
Quī fīnxit sigillātim corda eōrum; quī intellegit omnia opera eōrum.^He who hath made the hearts of every one of them; who understandeth all their works.
Nōn salvātur rēx per multam virtūtem, et gigās nōn salvābitur in multitūdine virtūtis suae.^The king is not saved by a great army, nor shall the giant be saved by his own great strength.
Fallāx equus ad salūtem; in abundantiā autem virtūtis suae nōn salvābitur.^Vain is the horse for safety; neither shall he be saved by the abundance of his strength.
Ecce oculī Dominī super metuentēs eum, et in eīs, quī spērant super misericordiā ejus.^Behold the eyes of the Lord are on them that fear him, and on them that hope in his mercy.
Ut ēruat ā morte animās eōrum, et alat eōs in famē.^To deliver their souls from death, and feed them in famine.
Anima nostra sustinet Dominum, quoniam adjūtor et prōtector noster est.^Our soul waiteth for the Lord, for he is our helper and protector.
Quia in eō laetābitur cor nostrum, et in nōmine sanctō ejus spērāvimus.^For in him our heart shall rejoice, and in his holy name we have trusted.
Fīat misericordia tua, Domine, super nōs, quemadmodum spērāvimus in tē.^Let thy mercy, O Lord, be upon us, as we have hoped in thee.
