Benedīcam Dominum in omnī tempore; semper laus ejus in ōre meō.^I will bless the Lord at all times, his praise shall be always in my mouth.
In Dominō laudābitur anima mea; audiant mansuētī, et laetentur.^In the Lord shall my soul be praised; let the meek hear, and rejoice.
Magnificāte Dominum mēcum, et exaltēmus nōmen ejus in idipsum.^O magnify the Lord with me, and let us extol his name together.
Exquīsīvī Dominum, et exaudīvit mē, et ex omnibus trībulātiōnibus meīs ēripuit mē.^I sought the Lord, and he heard me; and he delivered me from all my troubles.
Accēdite ad eum, et illūmināminī, et faciēs vestrae nōn confundentur.^Come ye to him, and be enlightened, and your faces shall not be confounded.
Iste pauper clāmāvit, et Dominus exaudīvit eum, et dē omnibus trībulātiōnibus ejus salvāvit eum.^This poor man cried, and the Lord heard him, and saved him out of all his troubles.
Immittet angelus Dominī in circumitū timentium eum, et ēripiet eōs.^The angel of the Lord shall encamp round about them that fear him, and shall deliver them.
Gustāte et vidēte quoniam suāvis est Dominus; beātus vir quī spērat in eō.^O taste and see that the Lord is sweet; blessed is the man that hopeth in him.
Timēte Dominum, omnēs sanctī ejus; quoniam nōn est inopia timentibus eum.^Fear the Lord, all ye his saints; for there is no want to them that fear him.
Dīvitēs eguērunt, et ēsurīvērunt; inquīrentēs autem Dominum nōn minuentur omnī bonō.^The rich have wanted, and have suffered hunger; but they that seek the Lord shall not be deprived of any good.
Venīte, fīliī, audīte mē; timōrem Dominī docēbō vōs.^Come, children, hearken to me; I will teach you the fear of the Lord.
Quis est homō quī vult vītam; dīligit diēs vidēre bonōs?^Who is the man that desireth life; who liveth to see good days?
Prohibē linguam tuam ā malō, et labia tua nē loquantur dolum.^Keep thy tongue from evil, and thy lips from speaking guile.
Dīverte ā malō, et fac bonum; inquīre pācem, et persequere eam.^Turn away from evil, and do good; seek after peace, and pursue it.
Oculī Dominī super jūstōs, et aurēs ejus in precēs eōrum.^The eyes of the Lord are upon the just, and his ears unto their prayers.
Vultus autem Dominī super facientēs mala, ut perdat dē terrā memoriam eōrum.^But the countenance of the Lord is against them that do evil things, to cut off the remembrance of them from the earth.
Clāmāvērunt jūstī, et Dominus exaudīvit eōs, et ex omnibus trībulātiōnibus eōrum līberāvit eōs.^The just cried, and the Lord heard them, and delivered them out of all their troubles.
Jūxtā est Dominus eīs quī trībulātō sunt corde, et humilēs spīritū salvābit.^The Lord is nigh unto them that are of a contrite heart, and he will save the humble of spirit.
Multae trībulātiōnēs jūstōrum, et dē omnibus hīs līberābit eōs Dominus.^Many are the afflictions of the just, and from them all will the Lord deliver them.
Cūstōdit Dominus omnia ossa eōrum; ūnum ex hīs nōn conterētur.^The Lord keepeth all their bones; not one of them shall be broken.
Mors peccātōrum pessima; et quī ōdērunt jūstum dēlinquent.^The death of the wicked is very evil; and they that hate the just shall be guilty.
Redimet Dominus animās servōrum suōrum, et nōn dēlinquent omnēs quī spērant in eō.^The Lord will redeem the souls of his servants, and none of them that trust in him shall offend.
