Dīxit injūstus ut dēlinquat in sēmet ipsō; nōn est timor Deī ante oculōs ejus.^The unjust hath declared within himself that he might sin; there is no fear of God before his eyes.
Quoniam dolōsē ēgit in conspectū ejus, ut inveniātur inīquitās ejus ad odium.^For in his sight he hath done deceitfully, that his iniquity may be found unto hatred.
Verba ōris ejus inīquitās et dolus; nōluit intellegere ut bene ageret.^The words of his mouth are iniquity and guile; he has not wished to understand that he might do well.
Inīquitātem meditātus est in cubīlī suō; astitit omnī viae nōn bonae, malitiam autem nōn ōdīvit.^He hath devised iniquity on his bed; he hath set himself on every way that is not good, but evil he hath not hated.
Domine, in caelō misericordia tua, et vēritās tua usque ad nūbēs.^O Lord, thy mercy is in heaven, and thy truth reacheth even to the clouds.
Jūstitia tua sīcut montēs Deī; jūdicia tua abissus multa. Hominēs et jūmenta salvābis, Domine.^Thy justice is as the mountains of God; thy judgments are a great deep. Men and beasts thou wilt preserve, O Lord.
Quemadmodum multiplicāstī misericordiam tuam, Deus. Fīliī autem hominum in tegmine ālārum tuārum spērābunt.^How hast thou multiplied thy mercy, O God! But the children of men shall put their trust under the cover of thy wings.
Inēbriābuntur ab ūbertāte domūs tuae, et torrente voluptātis tuae pōtābis eōs.^They shall be inebriated with the plenty of thy house, and thou shalt make them drink of the torrent of thy pleasure.
Quoniam apud tē est fōns vītae, et in lūmine tuō vidēbimus lūmen.^For with thee is the fountain of life, and in thy light we shall see light.
Praetende misericordiam tuam scientibus tē, et jūstitiam tuam hīs quī rēctō sunt corde.^Extend thy mercy to them that know thee, and thy justice to them that are right in heart.
Nōn veniat mihī pēs superbiae, et manus peccātōris nōn moveat mē.^Let not the foot of pride come to me, and let not the hand of the sinner move me.
Ibī cecidērunt quī operantur inīquitātem; expulsī sunt, nec potuērunt stāre.^There the workers of iniquity are fallen, they are cast out, and could not stand.
