Nōlī aemulārī in malignantibus, neque zēlāveris facientēs inīquitātem.^Be not emulous of evildoers, nor envy them that work iniquity.
Quoniam tamquam foenum vēlōciter ārēscent, et quemadmodum olera herbārum cito dēcident.^For they shall shortly wither away as grass, and as the green herbs shall quickly fall.
Spērā in Dominō, et fac bonitātem, et inhabitā terram, et pāscēris in dīvitiīs ejus.^Trust in the Lord, and do good, and dwell in the land, and thou shalt be fed with its riches.
Dēlectāre in Dominō, et dabit tibī petītiōnēs cordis tuī.^Delight in the Lord, and he will give thee the requests of thy heart.
Revēlā Dominō viam tuam, et spērā in eō, et ipse faciet.^Commit thy way to the Lord, and trust in him, and he will do it.
Et ēdūcet quasi lūmen jūstitiam tuam, et jūdicium tuum tamquam merīdiem.^And he will bring forth thy justice as the light, and thy judgment as the noonday.
Subditus estō Dominō, et ōrā eum; nōlī aemulārī in eō quī prōsperātur in viā suā; in homine faciente injūstitiās.^Be subject to the Lord, and pray to him; envy not the man who prospereth in his way; the man who doth unjust things.
Dēsine ab īrā, et dērelinque furōrem; nōlī aemulārī ut malignēris.^Cease from anger, and leave rage; have no emulation to do evil.
Quoniam quī malignantur exterminābuntur; sustinentēs autem Dominum, ipsī hērēditābunt terram.^For evildoers shall be cut off; but they that wait upon the Lord, they shall inherit the land.
Et adhūc pusillum et nōn erit peccātor, et quaerēs locum ejus, et nōn inveniēs.^For yet a little while and the wicked shall not be, and thou shalt seek his place, and shalt not find it.
Mansuētī autem hērēditābunt terram, et dēlectābuntur in multitūdine pācis.^But the meek shall inherit the land, and shall delight in abundance of peace.
Observābit peccātor jūstum, et strīdēbit super eum dentibus suīs.^The sinner shall watch the just man, and shall gnash upon him with his teeth.
Dominus autem irrīdēbit eum, quoniam prōspicit quod veniet diēs ejus.^But the Lord shall laugh at him, for he foreseeth that his day shall come.
Gladium ēvāgīnāvērunt peccātōrēs; intendērunt arcum suum, ut dējiciant pauperem et inopem, ut trucīdent rēctōs corde.^The wicked have drawn out the sword; they have bent their bow, to cast down the poor and needy, to kill the upright of heart.
Gladius eōrum intret in corda ipsōrum, et arcus eōrum confringātur.^Let their sword enter into their own hearts, and let their bow be broken.
Melius est modicum jūstō, super dīvitiās peccātōrum multās.^Better is a little to the just, than the great riches of the wicked.
Quoniam brāchia peccātōrum conterentur; confirmat autem jūstōs Dominus.^For the arms of the wicked shall be broken in pieces; but the Lord strengtheneth the just.
Nōvit Dominus diēs immaculātōrum, et hērēditās eōrum in aeternum erit.^The Lord knoweth the days of the undefiled, and their inheritance shall be for ever.
Nōn confundentur in tempore malō, et in diēbus famis saturābuntur.^They shall not be confounded in the evil time, and in the days of famine they shall be filled.
Quia peccātōrēs perībunt; inimīcī vērō Dominī mox ut honōrificātī fuerint et exaltātī, dēficientēs quemadmodum fūmus dēficient.^Because the wicked shall perish; truly the enemies of the Lord as soon after they have been honored and exalted, shall come to nothing and vanish like smoke.
Mūtuābitur peccātor, et nōn solvet; jūstus autem miserētur et tribuet.^The sinner shall borrow, and not pay again; but the just showeth mercy and shall give.
Quia benedīcentēs eī hērēditābunt terram; maledīcentēs autem eī disperībunt.^For such as bless him shall inherit the land; but such as curse him shall perish.
Apud Dominum gressūs hominis dīrigentur, et viam ejus volet.^With the Lord shall the steps of a man be directed, and he shall like well his way.
Cum ceciderit, nōn collīdētur, quia Dominus suppōnit manum suam.^When he shall fall, he shall not be bruised, for the Lord putteth his hand under him.
Jūnior fuī etenim senuī, et nōn vīdī jūstum dērelictum, nec sēmen ejus quaerens pānem.^I have been young and now am old, and I have not seen the just forsaken, nor his seed seeking bread.
Tōtā diē miserētur et commodat, et sēmen illīus in benedictiōne erit.^He showeth mercy and lendeth all the day long, and his seed shall be in blessing.
Dēclīnā ā malō et fac bonum, et inhabitā in saeculum saeculī.^Decline from evil and do good, and dwell for ever and ever,
Quia Dominus amat jūdicium, et nōn dērelinquet sanctōs suōs; in aeternum conservābuntur. Injūstī pūnientur, et sēmen impiōrum perībit.^for the Lord loveth judgment, and will not forsake his saints; they shall be preserved for ever. The unjust shall be punished, and the seed of the wicked shall perish.
Jūstī autem hērēditābunt terram, et inhabitābunt in saeculum saeculī super eam.^But the just shall inherit the land, and shall dwell therein for evermore.
Ōs jūstī meditābitur sapientiam, et lingua ejus loquētur jūdicium.^The mouth of the just shall meditate wisdom, and his tongue shall speak judgment.
Lēx Deī ejus in corde ipsīus, et nōn supplantābuntur gressūs ejus.^The law of his God is in his heart, and his steps shall not be supplanted.
Consīderat peccātor jūstum, et quaerit mortificāre eum.^The wicked watcheth the just man, and seeketh to put him to death.
Dominus autem nōn dērelinquet eum in manibus ejus, nec damnābit eum cum jūdicābitur illī.^But the Lord will not leave him in his hands, nor condemn him when he shall be judged.
Expectā Dominum et cūstōdī viam ejus, et exaltābit tē ut hērēditāte capiās terram; cum perīverint peccātōrēs vidēbis.^Expect the Lord and keep his way, and he will exalt thee to inherit the land; when the sinners shall perish thou shalt see.
Vīdī impium superexaltātum, et ēlevātum sīcut cedrōs Libanī.^I have seen the wicked highly exalted, and lifted up like the cedars of Lebanon.
Et transīvī, et ecce nōn erat, et quaesīvī eum, et nōn est inventus locus ejus.^And I passed by, and behold he was not, and I sought him, and his place was not found.
Cūstōdī innocentiam, et vidē aequitātem, quoniam sunt reliquiae hominī pācificō.^Keep innocence, and behold justice, for there are remnants for the peaceable man.
Injūstī autem disperībunt simul; reliquiae impiōrum interībunt.^But the unjust shall be destroyed together; the remnants of the wicked shall perish.
Salūs autem jūstōrum ā Dominō, et prōtēctor eōrum in tempore trībulātiōnis.^But the salvation of the just is from the Lord, and he is their protector in the time of trouble.
Et adjuvābit eōs Dominus, et līberābit eōs, et ēruet eōs ā peccātōribus, et salvābit eōs, quia spērāvērunt in eō.^And the Lord will help them, and deliver them, and he will rescue them from the wicked, and save them, because they have hoped in him.
