Domine, nē in furōre tuō arguās mē, neque in īrā tuā corripiās mē.^Rebuke me not, O Lord, in thy indignation; nor chastise me in thy wrath.
Quoniam sagittae tuae infīxae sunt mihī, et confirmāstī super mē manum tuam.^For thy arrows are fastened in me, and thy hand hath been strong upon me.
Nōn est sānitās in carne meā, ā faciē īrae tuae; nōn est pāx ossibus meīs ā faciē peccātōrum meōrum.^There is no health in my flesh, because of thy wrath; there is no peace for my bones, because of my sins.
Quoniam inīquitātēs meae supergressae sunt caput meum, et sīcut onus grave gravātae sunt super mē.^For my iniquities are gone over my head, and as a heavy burden are become heavy upon me.
Putruērunt et corruptae sunt cicātrīcēs meae, ā faciē insapientiae meae.^My sores are putrefied and corrupted, because of my foolishness.
Miser factus sum et curvātus sum usque in fīnem; tōtā diē contrīstātus ingrediēbar.^I am become miserable, and am bowed down even to the end; I walked sorrowful all the day long.
Quoniam lumbī meī implētī sunt illūsiōnibus, et nōn est sānitās in carne meā.^For my loins are filled with illusions; and there is no health in my flesh.
Afflīctus sum, et humiliātus sum nimis; rugiēbam ā gemitū cordis meī.^I am afflicted and humbled exceedingly; I roared with the groaning of my heart.
Domine, ante tē omne dēsīderium meum, et gemitus meus ā tē nōn est absconditus.^Lord, all my desire is before thee, and my groaning is not hidden from thee.
Cor meum conturbātum est; dērelīquit mē virtūs mea, et lūmen oculōrum meōrum, et ipsum nōn est mēcum.^My heart is troubled, my strength hath left me, and the light of my eyes itself is not with me.
Amīcī meī et proximī meī adversum mē adpropinquāvērunt et stetērunt, et quī jūxtā mē erant, dē longē stetērunt.^My friends and my neighbours have drawn near and stood against me, and they that were near me stood afar off.
Et vim faciēbant quī quaerēbant animam meam, et quī inquīrēbant mala mihī, locūtī sunt vānitātēs, et dolōs tōtā diē meditābantur.^And they that sought my soul used violence, and they that sought evils to me, they spoke vain things, and studied deceits all the day long.
Ego autem, tamquam surdus, nōn audiēbam, et sīcut mūtus nōn aperiens ōs suum.^But I, as a deaf man, heard not, and as a dumb man not opening his mouth.
Et factus sum sīcut homō nōn audiens, et nōn habens in ōre suō redargūtiōnēs.^And I became as a man that heareth not, and that hath no reproofs in his mouth.
Quoniam in tē Domine spērāvī; tū exaudiēs mē Domine Deus meus.^For in thee, O Lord, have I hoped; thou wilt hear me, O Lord my God.
Quia dīxī: Nēquandō supergaudeant mihī inimīcī meī. Et dum commoventur pedēs meī, super mē magna locūtī sunt.^For I said: Lest at any time my enemies rejoice over me. And whilst my feet are moved, they speak great things against me.
Quoniam ego in flagella parātus sum, et dolor meus in conspectū meō semper.^For I am ready for scourges, and my sorrow is continually before me.
Quoniam inīquitātem meam adnuntiābō, et cōgitābō prō peccātō meō.^For I will declare my iniquity, and I will think for my sin.
Inimīcī autem meī vīvunt, et confirmātī sunt super mē, et multiplicātī sunt quī ōdērunt mē inīquē.^But my enemies live, and are stronger than I, and they that hate me wrongfully are multiplied.
Quī retribuunt mala prō bonīs, dētrahēbant mihī, quoniam sequēbar bonitātem.^They that render evil for good, have detracted me, because I followed goodness.
Nē dērelinquās mē, Domine Deus meus; nē discesserīs ā mē.^For sake me not, O Lord my God; do not thou depart from me.
Intende in adjūtōrium meum, Domine, Deus salūtis meae.^Attend unto my help, O Lord, the God of my salvation.
