Dīxī: Cūstōdiam viās meās, ut nōn dēlinquam in linguā meā. Posuī ōrī meō cūstōdiam, cum consisteret peccātor adversum mē.^I said: I will take heed to my ways, that I sin not with my tongue. I have set a guard to my mouth, when the sinner stood against me.
Obmūtuī, et humiliātus sum, et siluī ā bonīs, et dolor meus renovātus est.^I was dumb, and was humbled, and kept silence from good things, and my sorrow was renewed.
Concaluit cor meum intrā mē, et in meditātiōne meā exārdēscet ignis.^My heart grew hot within me, and in my meditation a fire shall flame out.
Locūtus sum in linguā meā: Nōtum fac mihī, Domine, fīnem meum, et numerum diērum meōrum quis est, ut sciam quid dēsit mihī.^I spoke with my tongue: Make know to me, O Lord, my end, and what is the number of my days, that I may know what is wanting to me.
Ecce mensūrābilēs posuistī diēs meōs, et substantia mea tamquam nihilum ante tē. Vērumtamen ūniversa vānitās, omnis homō vīvens.^Behold thou hast made my days measurable, and my substance is as nothing before thee. Surely all things are vanity, every man living.
Vērumtamen in imāgine pertransit homō; sed et frūstrā conturbātur. Thēsaurizat, et ignōrat cui congregābit ea.^Surely man passeth as an image; but even he is disquieted in vain. He storeth up, and he knoweth not for whom he shall gather these things.
Et nunc quae est expectātiō mea? Nōnne Dominus? Et substantia mea apud tē est.^And now what is my hope? Is it not the Lord? And my substance is with thee.
Ab omnibus inīquitātibus meīs ērue mē; opprobrium insapientī dedistī mē.^Deliver thou me from all my iniquities; thou hast made me a reproach to the fool.
Obmūtuī, et nōn aperuī ōs meum, quoniam tū fēcistī.^I was dumb, and I opened not my mouth, because thou hast done it.
Āmovē ā mē plāgās tuās; ā fortitūdine manūs tuae ego dēfēcī in increpātiōnibus.^Remove thy scourges from me; the strength of thy hand hath made me faint in rebukes.
Propter inīquitātem corripuistī hominem, et tābēscere fēcistī sīcut arāneam animam ejus; vērumtamen vānē conturbātur omnis homō.^Thou hast corrected man for iniquity, and thou hast made his soul to waste away like a spider; surely in vain is any man disquieted.
Exaudī ōrātiōnem meam, Domine, et dēprecātiōnem meam; auribus percipe lacrimās meās. Nē sileās, quoniam advena ego sum apud tē, et peregrīnus sīcut omnēs patrēs meī.^Hear my prayer, O Lord, and my supplication; give ear to my tears. Be no silent, for I am a stranger with thee, and a sojourner as all my fathers were.
Remitte mihī, ut refrīgerer priusquam abeam, et amplius nōn erō.^Forgive me, that I may be refreshed before I go hence, and be no more.
