Beātus quī intellegit super egēnum et pauperem; in diē malā līberābit eum Dominus.^Blessed is he that understandeth concerning the needy and the poor; in the evil day the Lord will deliver him.
Dominus conservet eum, et vīvificet eum, et beātum faciat eum in terrā, et nōn trādat eum in animam inimīcōrum ejus.^The Lord preserve him, and give him life, and make him blessed upon the earth, and deliver him not up to the will of his enemies.
Dominus opem ferat illī super lectum dolōris ejus; ūniversum strātum ejus versāstī in infirmitāte ejus.^The Lord help him on his bed of sorrow; thou hast turned all his couch in his sickness.
Ego dīxī: Domine, miserēre meī; sānā animam meam, quia peccāvī tibī.^I said: O Lord, be thou merciful to me; heal my soul, for I have sinned against thee.
Inimīcī meī dīxērunt mala mihī: Quandō moriētur, et perībit nōmen ejus?^My enemies have spoken evils against me: When shall he die and his name perish?
Et sī ingrediēbātur ut vidēret, vāna loquēbātur; cor ejus congregāvit inīquitātem sibī. Ēgrediēbātur forās et loquēbātur in idipsum.^And if he came in to see me, he spoke vain things; his heart gathered together iniquity to itself. He went out and spoke in like manner.
Adversum mē susurrābant omnēs inimīcī meī; adversum mē cōgitābant mala mihī.^All my enemies whispered together against me; they devised evils to me.
Verbum inīquum constituērunt adversum mē: Numquid quī dormit nōn adjiciet ut resurgat?^They determined against me an unjust word: Shall he that sleepeth rise again no more?
Etenim homō pācis meae in quō spērāvī, quī edēbat pānēs meōs, magnificāvit super mē supplantātiōnem.^For even the man of my peace in whom I trusted, who ate my bread, hath greatly supplanted me.
Tū autem, Domine, miserēre meī, et resuscitā mē, et retribuam eīs.^But thou, O Lord, have mercy on me, and raise me up again, and I will requite them.
In hōc cognōvī quoniam voluistī mē, quoniam nōn gaudēbit inimīcus meus super mē.^By this I know that thou hast had a good will for me, because my enemy shall not rejoice over me.
Mē autem propter innocentiam suscēpistī, et confirmāstī mē in conspectū tuō in aeternum.^But thou hast upheld me by reason of my innocence, and hast established me in thy sight for ever.
Benedictus Dominus Deus Isrāhēl ā saeculō, et usque in saeculum. Fīat, fīat.^Blessed be the Lord the God of Israel from eternity, and even unto eternity. So be it. So be it.
