Quemadmodum dēsīderat cervus ad fontēs aquārum, ita dēsīderat anima mea ad tē, Deus.^As the hart panteth after the fountains of water, so my soul panteth after thee, O God.
Sitīvit anima mea ad Deum fortem vīvum; quandō veniam et appārēbō ante faciem Deī?^My soul hath thirsted after the strong living God; when shall I come and appear before the face of God?
Fuērunt mihī lacrimae meae pānēs diē ac nocte, dum dīcitur mihī quotīdiē: Ubī est Deus tuus?^My tears have been my bread day and night, whilst it is said to me daily: Where is thy God?
Haec recordātus sum, et effūdī in mē animam meam, quoniam trānsībō in locum tabernāculī admīrābilis, usque ad dōnum Deī, in vōce exsultātiōnis, et confessiōnis, sonus epulantis.^These things I remembered, and poured out my soul in me, for I shall go over into the place of the wonderful tabernacle, even to the house of God, with the voice of joy and praise, the noise of one feasting.
Quārē trīstis es, anima mea? Et quārē conturbās mē? Spērā in Deō, quoniam adhūc confitēbor illī, salūtāre vultūs meī, et Deus meus.^Why art thou sad, O my soul? And why dost thou trouble me? Hope in God, for I will still give praise to him, the salvation of my countenance, and my God.
Ad mē ipsum anima mea conturbāta est; proptereā memor erō tuī dē terrā Jordānis, et Hermonum ā monte modicō.^My soul is troubled within my self; therefore will I remember thee from the land of Jordan, and from the little hill of Hermonites.
Abissus abissum invocat, in vōce cataractārum tuārum; omnia excelsa tua et flūctūs tuī super mē trānsīvērunt.^Deep calleth on deep, at the noise of thy flood-gates; all thy heights and thy billows have passed over me.
In diē mandāvit Dominus misericordiam suam, et nocte canticum ejus. Apud mē ōrātiō Deō vītae meae.^In the daytime the Lord hath commanded his mercy, and a canticle to him in the night. With me is prayer to the God of my life.
Dīcam Deō: Susceptor meus es; quārē oblītus es meī? Et quārē contrīstātus incēdō, dum afflīgit mē inimīcus?^I will say to God: Thou art my support; why hast thou forgotten me? And why go I mourning, whilst my enemy afflicteth me?
Dum confringuntur ossa mea, exprobrāvērunt mihī quī trībulant mē inimīcī meī, dum dīcunt mihī per singulōs diēs: Ubī est Deus tuus?^Whilst my bones are broken, my enemies who trouble me have reproached me, whilst they say to me day by day: Where is thy God?
Quārē trīstis es, anima mea? Et quārē conturbās mē? Spērā in Deō, quoniam adhūc confitēbor illī, salūtāre vultūs meī, et Deus meus.^Why art thou cast down, O my soul? And why dost thou disquiet me? Hope thou in God, for I will still give praise to him; the salvation of my countenance, and my God.
