Deus, auribus nostrīs audīvimus; pātrēs nostrī adnuntiāvērunt nōbīs, opus quod operātus es in diēbus eōrum, et in diēbus antīquīs.^O God, we have heard with our ears; our fathers have declared to us, the work thou hast wrought in their days, and in the days of old.
Manus tua gentēs disperdidit, et plantāstī eōs; afflīxistī populōs, et expulistī eōs;^Thy hand destroyed the Gentiles, and thou plantedst them; thou didst afflict the people, and cast them out;
nec enim in gladiō suō possēdērunt terram, et brāchium eōrum nōn salvāvit eōs; sed dextera tua et brāchium tuum, et illūminātiō vultūs tuī, quoniam complacuistī in eīs.^for not by their own sword did they inherit the land, and their own arm did not save them; rather thy right hand and thy arm, and the light of thy countenance, because thou wast pleased with them.
Tū es ipse rēx meus et Deus meus, quī mandās salūtēs Jācob.^Thou art thyself my king and my God, who commandest the saving of Jacob.
In tē inimīcōs nostrōs ventilābimus cornū, et in nōmine tuō spernēmus insurgentēs in nōbīs.^Through thee we will push down our enemies with the horn, and through thy name we will despise them that rise up against us.
Nōn enim in arcū meō spērābō, et gladius meus nōn salvābit mē.^For I will not trust in my bow, and my sword shall not save me.
Salvāstī enim nōs dē afflīgentibus nōs, et odientēs nōs confūdistī.^But thou hast saved us from them that afflict us, and hast put them to shame that hate us.
In Deō laudābimur tōtā diē, et in nōmine tuō confitēbimur in saeculum.^In God shall we glory all the day long, and in thy name we will give praise for ever.
Nunc autem repulistī et confūdistī nōs, et nōn ēgrediēris, Deus, in virtūtibus nostrīs.^But now thou hast cast us off, and put us to shame, and thou, O God, wilt not go out with our armies.
Āvertistī nōs retrōrsum post inimīcōs nostrōs, et quī ōdērunt nōs, dīripiēbant sibī.^Thou hast made us turn our back to our enemies, and they that hated us plundered for themselves.
Dedistī nōs tamquam ovēs ēscārum, et in Gentibus dispersistī nōs.^Thou hast given us up like sheep to be eaten, and thou hast scattered us among the nations.
Vēndidistī populum tuum sine pretiō, et nōn fuit multitūdō in commūtātiōnibus eōrum.^Thou hast sold thy people for no price, and there was no reckoning in the exchange of them.
Posuistī nōs opprobrium vīcīnīs nostrīs; subsannātiōnem et dērīsum hīs quī sunt in circumitū nostrō.^Thou hast made us a reproach to our neighbours; a scoff and derision to them that are round about us.
Posuistī nōs in similitūdinem Gentibus; commōtiōnem capitis in populīs.^Thou hast made us a byword among the Gentiles; a shaking of the head among the people.
Tōtā diē verēcundia mea contrā mē est, et confūsiō faciēī meae cooperuit mē,^All the day long my shame is before me, and the confusion of my face hath covered me,
ā vōce exprōbrantis et obloquentis, ā faciē inimīcī et persequentis.^at the voice of him that reproacheth and detracteth me; at the face of the enemy and persecutor.
Haec omnia vēnērunt super nōs, nec oblītī sumus tē, et inīquē nōn ēgimus in testāmentō tuō.^All these things have come upon us, yet we have not forgotten thee, and we have not done wickedly in thy covenant.
Et nōn recessit retrō cor nostrum, et dēclīnāstī sēmitās nostrās ā viā tuā,^And our heart hath not turned back, and thou hast diverted our steps from thy way,
quoniam humiliāstī nōs in locō afflīctiōnis, et cooperuit nōs umbra mortis.^for thou hast humbled us in the place of affliction, and the shadow of death hath covered us.
Sī oblītī sumus nōmen Deī nostrī, et sī expandimus manūs nostrās ad deum aliēnum,^If we have forgotten the name of our God, and if we have spread forth our hands to a strange god,
nōnne Deus requīret ista? Ipse enim nōvit abscondita cordis. Quoniam propter tē mortificāmur tōtā diē; aestimātī sumus sīcut ovēs occīsiōnis.^shall not God search out these things? For he knoweth the secrets of the heart. Because for thy sake we are killed all the day long; we are counted as sheep for the slaughter.
Exsurge, quārē obdormīs, Domine? Exsurge, et nē repellās in fīnem.^Arise, why sleepest thou, O Lord? arise, and cast us not off to the end.
Quārē faciem tuam āvertis? Oblīvīsceris inopiae nostrae et trībulātiōnis nostrae?^Why turnest thou thy face away? Why forgettest our want and our trouble?
Quoniam humiliāta est in pulvere anima nostra; conglūtinātus est in terrā venter noster.^For our soul is humbled down to the dust; our belly cleaveth to the earth.
Exsurge, Domine, adjuvā nōs, et redime nōs propter nōmen tuum.^Arise, O Lord, help us, and redeem us for thy name's sake.
