Ēructāvit cor meum verbum bonum; dīcō ego opera mea rēgī. Lingua mea calamus scrībae, vēlōciter scrībentis.^My heart hath uttered a good word; I speak my works to the king. My tongue is the pen of a scrivener that writeth swiftly.
Speciōsus fōrma prae fīliīs hominum, diffūsa est grātia in labiīs tuīs; proptereā benedīxit tē Deus in aeternum.^Thou art beautiful above the sons of men, grace is poured abroad in thy lips; therefore hath God blessed thee for ever.
Accingere gladiō tuō super femur tuum, potentissime.^Gird thy sword upon thy thigh, O thou most mighty.
Speciē tuā et pulchritūdine tuā intende, prōspere prōcēde, et rēgnā, propter vēritātem et mānsuētūdinem et jūstitiam, et dēdūcet tē mīrābiliter dextera tua.^With thy comeliness and thy beauty set out, proceed prosperously, and reign, because of truth and meekness and justice, and thy right hand shall conduct thee wonderfully.
Sagittae tuae acūtae; populī sub tē cadent, in corda inimīcōrum rēgis.^Thy arrows are sharp; under thee shall people fall, into the hearts of the king's enemies.
Sēdēs tua, Deus, in saeculum saeculī; virga dīrēctiōnis virga rēgnī tuī.^Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever; the sceptre of thy kingdom is a sceptre of uprightness.
Dīlēxistī jūstitiam, et ōdistī inīquitātem; proptereā ūnxit tē Deus, Deus tuus oleō laetitiae prae consortibus tuīs.^Thou hast loved justice, and hated iniquity; therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows.
Murra et gutta et cassia ā vestīmentīs tuīs, ā domibus eburneīs, ex quibus dēlectāvērunt tē;^Myrrh, and stacte, and cassia perfume thy garments, from the ivory houses, from these they have delighted thee;
fīliae rēgum in honōre tuō; astitit rēgīna ā dextrīs tuīs in vestītū deaurātō, circumdatā varietāte.^the daughters of kings in thy glory; the queen stood on thy right hand in gilded clothing, surrounded with variety.
Audī, fīlia, et vidē, et inclīnā aurem tuam, et oblīvīscere populum tuum et domum patris tuī.^Hearken, O daughter, and see, and incline thy ear, and forget thy people and thy father's house.
Et concupīscet rēx decōrem tuum, quoniam ipse est Dominus Deus tuus, et adōrābunt eum.^And the king shall greatly desire thy beauty, for he is the Lord thy God, and him they shall adore.
Et fīliae Tirī in mūneribus vultum tuum dēprecābuntur; omnēs dīvitēs plēbis.^And the daughters of Tyre hall sentreat thy countenance with gifts; all the rich among the people.
Omnis glōria ejus fīliae rēgis ab intus, in fimbriīs aureīs, circumamicta varietātibus.^All the glory of the daughter of the king is within, in golden borders, clothed round about with varieties.
Addūcentur rēgī virginēs post eam; proximae ejus afferentur tibī.^After her shall virgins be brought to the king; her neighbours shall be brought to thee.
Afferentur in laetitiā et exsultātiōne; addūcentur in templum rēgis.^They shall be brought with gladness and rejoicing; they shall be brought into the temple of the king.
Prō patribus tuīs nātī sunt tibī fīliī; constituēs eōs prīncipēs super omnem terram.^Instead of thy fathers, sons are born to thee; thou shalt make them princes over all the earth.
Memorēs erunt nōminis tuī in omnī generātiōne et generātiōnem. Proptereā populī confitēbuntur tibī in aeternum, et in saeculum saeculī.^They shall remember thy name throughout all generations. Therefore shall people praise thee for ever, and for ever and ever.
