Magnus Dominus, et laudābilis nimis, in cīvitāte Deī nostrī, in monte sānctō ejus.^Great is the Lord, and exceedingly to be praised, in the city of our God, in his holy mountain.
Fundātur exsultātiōne ūniversae terrae mons Sīon; latera aquilōnis, cīvitās Rēgis magnī.^With the joy of the whole earth is mount Sion founded; on the sides of the north, the city of the great king.
Deus in domibus ejus cognōscētur, cum suscipiet eam.^In her houses shall God be known, when he shall protect her.
Quoniam ecce rēgēs terrae congregātī sunt; convēnērunt in ūnum.^For behold the kings of the earth assembled themselves; they gathered together.
Ipsī videntēs sīc admīrātī sunt, conturbātī sunt, commōtī sunt.^They saw, so they wondered, they were troubled, they were moved.
Tremor apprehendit eōs; ibī dolōrēs ut parturientis;^Trembling took hold of them; there were pains as of a woman in labour;
in spīritū vehementī conterēs nāvēs Tharsis.^with a vehement wind thou shalt break in pieces the ships of Tharsis.
Sīcut audīvimus, sīc vīdimus, in cīvitāte Dominī virtūtum, in cīvitāte Deī nostrī; Deus fundāvit eam in aeternum.^As we have heard, so have we seen, in the city of the Lord of hosts, in the city of our God; God hath founded it for ever.
Suscēpimus, Deus, misericordiam tuam, in mediō templī tuī.^We have received thy mercy, O God, in the midst of thy temple.
Secundum nōmen tuum, Deus, sīc et laus tua in fīnēs terrae; jūstitia plēna est dextera tua.^According to thy name, O God, so also is thy praise unto the ends of the earth; thy right hand is full of justice.
Laetētur mons Sīon, et exsultent fīliae Jūdae, propter jūdicia tua, Domine.^Let mount Sion rejoice, and the daughters of Juda be glad, because of thy judgments, O Lord.
Circumdate Sīon, et complectiminī eam; nārrāte in turribus ejus.^Surround Sion, and encompass her; tell ye in her towers.
Pōnite corda vestra in virtūte ejus, et distribuite domōs ejus, ut ēnārrētis in prōgeniē alterā.^Set your hearts on her strength, and distribute her houses, that ye may relate it in another generation.
Quoniam hic est Deus, Deus noster in aeternum, et in saeculum saeculī; ipse reget nōs in saecula.^For this is God, our God unto eternity, and for ever and ever; he shall rule us for evermore.
