Audīte haec, omnēs gentēs; auribus percipite omnēs, quī habitātis orbem,^Hear these things, all ye nations; give ear, all ye inhabitants of the world,
quīque terrigenae, et fīliī hominum, simul in ūnum dīves et pauper.^all you that are earthborn, and you sons of men, both rich and poor together.
Ōs meum loquētur sapientiam, et meditātiō cordis meī prūdentiam.^My mouth shall speak wisdom, and the meditation of my heart understanding.
Inclīnābō in parabolam aurem meam; aperiam in psaltēriō prōpositiōnem meam.^I will incline my ear to a parable; I will open my proposition on the psaltery.
Cūr timēbō in diē malā? Inīquitās calcāneī meī circumdabit mē.^Why shall I fear in the evil day? The iniquity of my heel shall encompass me.
Quī confīdunt in virtūte suā, et in multitūdine dīvitiārum suārum glōriantur.^They that trust in their own strength, and glory in the multitude of their riches,
Frāter nōn redimit, redimet homō; nōn dabit Deō plācātiōnem suam,^No brother can redeem, nor shall man redeem; he shall not give to God his ransom,
et pretium redēmptiōnis animae suae, et labōrābit in aeternum,^nor the price of the redemption of his soul, and shall labour for ever,
et vīvet adhūc in fīnem.^and shall still live unto the end.
Nōn vidēbit interitum, cum vīderit sapientēs morientēs. Simul insapiens et stultus perībunt, et relinquent aliēnīs dīvitiās suās.^He shall not see destruction, when he shall see the wise dying. The senseless and the fool shall perish together, and they shall leave their riches to strangers.
Et sepulchra eōrum domūs illōrum in aeternum, tabernācula eōrum in prōgeniē et prōgeniē; vocāvērunt nōmina sua in terrīs suīs.^And their sepulchres shall be their houses for ever, their dwelling places unto generation and generation; they have called their names upon their own lands.
Et homō, cum in honōre esset, nōn intellēxit; comparātus est jūmentīs insapientibus, et similis factus est illīs.^And man, when he was in honour, did not understand; he is compared to senseless beasts, and is become like to them.
Haec via illōrum scandalum ipsīs, et posteā in ōre suō complacēbunt.^This way of theirs is a stumblingblock to them, and afterwards they shall delight in their mouth.
Sīcut ovēs in infernō positī sunt; mors dēpāscet eōs, et dominābuntur eōrum jūstī in mātūtīnō, et auxilium eōrum veterāscet in infernō ā glōriā eōrum.^They are laid in hell like sheep; death shall feed upon them, and the just shall have dominion over them in the morning, and their help shall decay in hell from their glory.
Vērumtamen Deus redimet animam meam dē manū inferī, cum accēperit mē.^But God will redeem my soul from the hand of hell, when he shall receive me.
Nē timuerīs cum dīves factus fuerit homō, et cum multiplicāta fuerit glōria domūs ejus,^Be not thou afraid when a man shall be made rich, and when the glory of his house shall be increased,
quoniam, cum interīverit, nōn sūmet omnia, neque dēscendet cum eō glōria ejus.^for when he shall die he shall take nothing away, nor shall his glory descend with him.
Quia anima ejus in vītā ipsīus benedīcētur; confitēbitur tibī cum benefēcerīs eī.^For in his lifetime his soul will be blessed; he will praise thee when thou shalt do well to him.
Introībit usque in prōgeniēs pātrum suōrum, et usque in aeternum nōn vidēbit lūmen.^He shall go in to the generations of his fathers, and he shall never see light.
Homō, cum in honōre esset, nōn intellēxit; comparātus est jūmentīs insapientibus, et similis factus est illīs.^Man, when he was in honour, did not understand; he hath been compared to senseless beasts, and made like to them.
