Deus deōrum Dominus locūtus est, et vocāvit terram ā sōlis ortū usque ad occāsum.^The God of gods, the Lord hath spoken, and he hath called the earth from the rising of the sun, to the going down thereof.
Ex Sīon speciēs decōris ejus; Deus manifestē veniet.^Out of Sion the loveliness of his beauty; God shall come manifestly.
Deus noster, et nōn silēbit. Ignis in conspectū ejus exārdēscet, et in circumitū ejus tempestās valida.^Our God, and he shall not be silent. A fire shall burn before him, and a mighty tempest shall be round about him.
Advocābit caelum dēsūrsum, et terram, discernere populum suum.^He shall call heaven from above, and the earth, to judge his people.
Congregāte illī sanctōs ejus, quī ōrdinant testāmentum ejus super sacrificia.^Gather ye together his saints to him, who set his covenant before sacrifices.
Et adnuntiābunt caelī jūstitiam ejus, quoniam Deus jūdex est.^And the heavens shall declare his justice, for God is judge.
Audī, populus meus, et loquar; Isrāhel, et testificābor tibī; Deus, Deus tuus ego sum.^Hear, O my people, and I will speak; O Israel, and I will testify to thee; I am God, thy God.
Nōn in sacrificiīs tuīs arguam tē; holocausta autem tua in conspectū meō sunt semper.^I will not reprove thee for thy sacrifices; and thy burnt offerings are always in my sight.
Nōn accipiam dē domō tuā vitulōs, neque dē gregibus tuīs hircōs.^I will not take calves out of thy house, nor he goats out of thy flocks.
Quoniam meae sunt omnēs ferae silvārum, jūmenta in montibus, et bovēs.^For all the beasts of the woods are mine, the cattle on the hills, and the oxen.
Cognōvī omnia volātilia caelī, et pulchritūdō agrī mēcum est.^I know all the fowls of the air, and with me is the beauty of the field.
Sī ēsurīverō, nōn dīcam tibī, meus est enim orbis terrae, et plēnitūdō ejus.^If I should be hungry, I would not tell thee, for the world is mine, and the fulness thereof.
Numquid mandūcābō carnēs taurōrum? Aut sanguinem hircōrum pōtābō?^Shall I eat the flesh of bullocks? Or shall I drink the blood of goats?
Immolā Deō sacrificium laudis, et redde Altissimō vōta tua.^Offer to God the sacrifice of praise, and pay thy vows to the most High.
Et invocā mē in diē trībulātiōnis; ēruam tē, et honōrificābis mē.^And call upon me in the day of trouble; I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me.
Peccātōrī autem dīxit Deus: Quārē tū ēnārrās jūstitiās meās, et assūmis testāmentum meum per ōs tuum?^But to the sinner God hath said: Why dost thou declare my justices, and take my covenant in thy mouth?
Tū vērō ōdistī disciplīnam, et prōjēcistī sermōnēs meōs retrōrsum:^Seeing thou hast hated discipline, and hast cast my words behind thee.
Sī vidēbās fūrem, currēbās cum eō, et cum adulterīs portiōnem tuam pōnēbās.^If thou didst see a thief thou didst run with him, and with adulterers thou hast been a partaker.
Ōs tuum abundāvit malitiā, et lingua tua concinnābat dolōs.^Thy mouth hath abounded with evil, and thy tongue framed deceits.
Sedens adversus frātrem tuum loquēbāris, et adversus fīlium mātris tuae pōnēbās scandalum.^Sitting thou didst speak against thy brother, and didst lay a scandal against thy mother's son.
Haec fēcistī, et tacuī. Exīstimāstī inīquē quod erō tuī similis; arguam tē, et statuam contrā faciem tuam.^These things hast thou done, and I was silent. Thou thoughtest unjustly that I should be like to thee; but I will reprove thee, and set before thy face.
Intellegite haec, quī oblīvīsciminī Deum; nēquandō rapiat, et nōn sit quī ēripiat.^Understand these things, you that forget God; lest he snatch you away, and there be none to deliver you.
Sacrificium laudis honōrificābit mē, et illic iter quō ostendam illī salūtāre Deī.^The sacrifice of praise shall glorify me, and there is the way by which I will show him the salvation of God.
