Miserēre meī, Deus, secundum magnam misericordiam tuam, et secundum multitūdinem miserātiōnum tuārum dēlē inīquitātem meam.^Have mercy on me, O God, according to thy great mercy, and according to the multitude of thy tender mercies blot out my iniquity.
Amplius lavā mē ab inīquitāte meā, et ā peccātō meō mundā mē,^Wash me yet more from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin.
quoniam inīquitātem meam ego cognōscō, et peccātum meum contrā mē est semper.^For I know my iniquity, and my sin is always before me.
Tibī sōlī peccāvī, et malum cōram tē fēcī, ut jūstificēris in sermōnibus tuīs, et vincās cum jūdicāris.^To thee only have I sinned, and have done evil before thee; that thou mayst be justified in thy words, and mayst overcome when thou art judged.
Ecce enim in inīquitātibus conceptus sum, et in peccātīs concēpit mē māter mea.^For behold I was conceived in iniquities; and in sins did my mother conceive me.
Ecce enim vēritātem dīlēxistī; incerta et occulta sapientiae tuae manifestāstī mihī.^For behold thou hast loved truth; the uncertain and hidden things of thy wisdom thou hast made manifest to me.
Aspergēs mē hissōpō, et mundābor; lavābis mē, et super nivem dealbābor.^Thou shalt sprinkle me with hyssop, and I shall be cleansed; thou shalt wash me, and I shall be made whiter than snow.
Audītuī meō dabis gaudium et laetitiam, et exsultābunt ossa humiliāta.^To my hearing thou shalt give joy and gladness, and the bones that have been humbled shall rejoice.
Āverte faciem tuam ā peccātīs meīs, et omnēs inīquitātēs meās dēlē.^Turn away thy face from my sins, and blot out all my iniquities.
Cor mundum creā in mē, Deus, et spīritum rēctum innovā in vīsceribus meīs.^Create a clean heart in me, O God, and renew a right spirit within my bowels.
Nē prōjiciās mē ā faciē tuā, et spīritum sanctum tuum nē auferās ā mē.^Cast me not away from thy face, and take not thy holy spirit from me.
Redde mihī laetitiam salūtāris tuī, et spīritū prīncipālī confirmā mē.^Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation, and strengthen me with a perfect spirit.
Docēbō inīquōs viās tuās, et impiī ad tē convertentur.^I will teach the unjust thy ways, and the wicked shall be converted to thee.
Līberā mē dē sanguinibus, Deus, Deus salūtis meae, et exsultābit lingua mea jūstitiam tuam.^Deliver me from blood, O God, thou God of my salvation, and my tongue shall extol thy justice.
Domine, labia mea aperiēs, et ōs meum adnūntiābit laudem tuam.^O Lord, thou wilt open my lips, and my mouth shall declare thy praise.
Quoniam sī voluissēs sacrificium, dedissem utique; holocaustīs nōn dēlectāberis.^For if thou hadst desired sacrifice, I would indeed have given it; with burnt offerings thou wilt not be delighted.
Sacrificium Deō spīritus contrībulātus; cor contrītum et humiliātum, Deus, nōn dēspiciēs.^A sacrifice to God is an afflicted spirit; a contrite and humbled heart, O God, thou wilt not despise.
Benignē fac, Domine, in bonā voluntāte tuā Sīon, ut aedificentur mūrī Jerusalem;^Deal favourably, O Lord, in thy good will with Sion, that the walls of Jerusalem may be built up;
tunc acceptābis sacrificium jūstitiae, oblātiōnēs et holocausta; tunc impōnent super altāre tuum vitulōs.^then shalt thou accept the sacrifice of justice, oblations and whole burnt offerings; then shall they lay calves upon thy altar.
