Exaudī Deus ōrātiōnem meam, et nē dēspexerīs dēprecātiōnem meam;^Hear, O God, my prayer, and despise not my supplication.
intende mihī, et exaudī mē. Contrīstātus sum in exercitātiōne meā, et conturbātus sum,^Be attentive to me and hear me. I am grieved in my exercise; and am troubled,
ā vōce inimīcī, et ā trībulātiōne peccātōris. Quoniam dēclīnāvērunt in mē inīquitātēs, et in īrā molestī erant mihī.^At the voice of the enemy, and at the tribulation of the sinner. For they have cast iniquities upon me, and in wrath they were troublesome to me.
Cor meum conturbātum est in mē, et formīdō mortis cecidit super mē.^My heart is troubled within me, and the fear of death is fallen upon me.
Timor et tremor vēnērunt super mē, et contēxērunt mē tenebrae.^Fear and trembling are come upon me, and darkness hath covered me.
Et dīxī: Quis dabit mihī pennās sīcut columbae, et volābō, et requiēscam?^And I said: Who will give me wings like a dove, and I will fly and be at rest?
Ecce ēlongāvī fugiens, et mansī in sōlitūdine.^Lo, I have gone far off flying away; and I abode in the wilderness.
Expectābam eum, quī salvum mē fēcit ā pusillanimitāte spīritūs, et tempestāte.^I waited for him that hath saved me from pusillanimity of spirit, and a storm.
Praecipitā, Domine; dīvide linguās eōrum; quoniam vīdī inīquitātem et contrādictiōnem in cīvitāte.^Cast down, O Lord, and divide their tongues; for I have seen iniquity and contradiction in the city.
Diē ac nocte circumdabit eam super mūrōs ejus inīquitās, et labor in mediō ejus,^Day and night shall iniquity surround it upon its walls, and in the midst thereof are labour,
et injūstitia, et nōn dēfēcit dē platēīs ejus ūsūra et dolus.^And injustice. And usury and deceit have not departed from its streets.
Quoniam sī inimīcus meus maledīxisset mihī, sustinuissem utique. Et sī is quī ōderat mē super mē magna locūtus fuisset, abscondissem mē forsitan ab eō.^For if my enemy had reviled me, I would verily have borne with it. And if he that hated me had spoken great things against me, I would perhaps have hidden my self from him.
Tū vērō homō ūnanimis, dux meus, et nōtus meus;^But thou a man of one mind, my guide, and my familiar,
Quī simul mēcum dulcēs capiēbās cibōs; in domō Deī ambulāvimus cum consensū.^Who didst take sweetmeats together with me; in the house of God we walked with consent.
Veniat mors super illōs, et dēscendant in infernum vīventēs; quoniam nēquitiae in habitāculīs eōrum, in mediō eōrum.^Let death come upon them, and let them go down alive into hell. For there is wickedness in their dwellings, in the midst of them.
Ego autem ad Deum clāmāvī, et Dominus salvābit mē.^But I have cried to God, and the Lord will save me.
Vespere, et māne, et merīdiē nārrābō et adnūntiābō, et exaudiet vōcem meam.^Evening and morning, and at noon I will speak and declare, and he shall hear my voice.
Redimet in pāce animam meam ab hīs, quī adpropinquant mihī, quoniam inter multōs erant mēcum.^He shall redeem my soul in peace from them, those that draw near to me, for among many they were with me.
Exaudiet Deus, et humiliābit illōs, quī est ante saecula. Nōn enim est illīs commūtātiō, et nōn timuērunt Deum.^God shall hear, and the Eternal shall humble them. For there is no change with them, and they have not feared God.
Extendit manum suam in retribuendō; contāmināvērunt testāmentum ejus;^He hath stretched forth his hand to repay. They have defiled his covenant,
dīvīsī sunt ab īrā vultūs ejus, et adpropinquāvit cor illīus. Mollītī sunt sermōnēs ejus super oleum, et ipsī sunt jacula.^They are divided by the wrath of his countenance, and his heart hath drawn near. His words are smoother than oil, and the same are darts.
Jactā super Dominum cūram tuam, et ipse tē ēnūtriet; nōn dabit in aeternum flūctuātiōnem jūstō.^Cast thy care upon the Lord, and he shall sustain thee; he shall not suffer the just to waver for ever.
Tū vērō, Deus, dēdūcēs eōs in puteum interitūs. Virī sanguinum, et dolōsī nōn dīmidiābunt diēs suōs; ego autem spērābō in tē Domine.^But thou, O God, shalt bring them down into the pit of destruction. Bloody and deceitful men shall not live out half their days; but I will trust in thee, O Lord.
