Miserēre meī, Deus, miserēre meī, quoniam in tē confīdit anima mea. Et in umbrā ālārum tuārum spērābō, dōnec trānseat inīquitās.^Have mercy on me, O God, have mercy on me, for my soul trusteth in thee. And in the shadow of thy wings will I hope, until iniquity pass away.
Clāmābō ad Deum altissimum, Deum quī benefēcit mihī.^I will cry to God the most high, to God who hath done good to me.
Mīsit dē caelō, et līberāvit mē; dedit in opprobrium conculcantēs mē. Mīsit Deus misericordiam suam et vēritātem suam,^He hath sent from heaven and delivered me; he gave over to reproach them that trod upon me. God hath sent his mercy and his truth,
et ēripuit animam meam dē mediō catulōrum leōnum. Dormīvī conturbātus. Fīliī hominum dentēs eōrum arma et sagittae, et lingua eōrum gladius acūtus.^and he hath delivered my soul from the midst of the young lions. I slept troubled. The sons of men, whose teeth are weapons and arrows, and their tongue a sharp sword.
Exaltāre super caelōs, Deus, et in omnem terram glōria tua.^Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens, and to all the earth thy glory.
Laqueum parāvērunt pedibus meīs, et incurvāvērunt animam meam. Fōdērunt ante faciem meam foveam, et incidērunt in eam.^They prepared a snare for my feet, and they bowed down my soul. They dug a pit before my face, and they are fallen into it.
Parātum cor meum, Deus, parātum cor meum; cantābō, et psalmum dīcam.^My heart is ready, O God, my heart is ready; I will sing, and rehearse a psalm.
Exsurge, glōria mea; exsurge, psaltērium et cithara; exsurgam dīlūculō.^Arise, O my glory, arise psaltery and harp; I will arise early.
Confitēbor tibī in populīs, Domine, et psalmum dīcam tibī in gentibus,^I will give praise to thee, O Lord, among the people; I will sing a psalm to thee among the nations,
quoniam magnificāta est usque ad caelōs misericordia tua, et usque ad nūbēs vēritās tua.^for thy mercy is magnified even to the heavens, and thy truth unto the clouds.
Exaltāre super caelōs, Deus, et super omnem terram glōria tua.^Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens, and thy glory above all the earth.
