Tē decet himnus, Deus, in Siōn, et tibī reddētur vōtum in Jerusalem.^A hymn becometh thee, O God, in Sion, and a vow shall be paid to thee in Jerusalem.
Exaudī ōrātiōnem meam; ad tē omnis carō veniet.^O hear my prayer; all flesh shall come to thee.
Verba inīquōrum praevaluērunt super nōs, et impietātibus nostrīs tū propitiāberis.^The words of the wicked have prevailed over us, and thou wilt pardon our transgressions.
Beātus quem ēlēgistī et assūmpsistī; inhabitābit in ātriīs tuīs. Replēbimur in bonīs domūs tuae; sānctum est templum tuum,^Blessed is he whom thou hast chosen and taken to thee; he shall dwell in thy courts. We shall be filled with the good things of thy house; holy is thy temple,
mīrābile in aequitāte. Exaudī nōs, Deus, salūtāris noster, spēs omnium fīnium terrae, et in marī longē.^wonderful in justice. Hear us, O God, our salvation, who art the hope of all the ends of the earth, and in the sea afar off.
Praeparas montēs in virtūte tuā, accīnctus potentia;^Thou who preparest the mountains by thy strength, being girded with power;
quī conturbās profundum maris, sonum flūctuum ejus. Turbābuntur gentēs,^who troublest the depth of the sea, the noise of its waves. The Gentiles shall be troubled,
et timēbunt quī habitant terminōs ā signīs tuīs; exitūs mātūtīnī et vespere dēlectābis.^and they that dwell in the uttermost borders shall be afraid at thy signs; the departures of the morning and of the evening thou shalt delight.
Vīsitāstī terram et inēbriāstī eam; multiplicāstī locuplētāre eam. Flūmen Deī replētum est aquīs; parāstī cibum illōrum, quoniam ita est praeparātiō ejus.^Thou hast visited the earth and inebriated it; thou hast many ways enriched it. The river of God is filled with water; thou hast prepared their food, for so is its preparation.
Rīvōs ejus inēbriā; multiplicā genimina ejus; in stillicidiīs ejus laetābitur germinans.^Inebriate the streams thereof; multiply its fruits; it shall spring up and rejoice in its showers.
Benedīcēs corōnae annī benignitātis tuae, et campī tuī replēbuntur ūbertāte.^Thou shalt bless the crown of the year of thy goodness, and thy fields shall be filled with plenty.
Pinguēscent speciōsa dēsertī, et exsultātiōne collēs accingentur.^The beautiful things of the wilderness shall grow fat, and the hills shall be girded about with joy.
Indūtī sunt arietēs ovium, et vallēs abundābunt frūmentō; clāmābunt, etenim himnum dīcent.^The rams of the flock are clothed, and the vales shall abound with corn; they shall shout, yea they shall sing a hymn.
