Exsurgat Deus, et dissipentur inimīcī ejus, et fugiant quī ōdērunt eum, ā faciē ejus.^Let God arise, and let his enemies be scattered; and let them that hate him flee from before his face.
Sīcut dēficit fūmus, dēficiant; sīcut fluit cēra ā faciē ignis, sīc pereant peccātōrēs ā faciē Deī.^As smoke vanisheth, so let them vanish away; as wax melteth before the face of fire, so let the wicked perish at the presence of God.
Et jūstī epulentur, et exsultent in conspectū Deī, et dēlectentur in laetitiā.^And let the just feast, and rejoice before God, and be delighted with gladness.
Cantāte Deō; psalmum dīcite nōminī ejus; iter facite eī, quī ascendit super occāsum. Dominus nōmen illī; exsultāte in conspectū ejus. Turbābuntur ā faciē ejus,^Sing ye to God; sing a psalm to his name; make a way for him who ascendeth upon the west. The Lord is his name; rejoice ye before him. They shall be troubled at his presence,
patris orfanōrum, et jūdicis viduārum; Deus in locō sānctō suō.^who is the father of orphans, and the judge of widows; God in his holy place.
Deus quī inhabitāre facit ūnīus mōris in domō; quī ēdūcit vīnctōs in fortitūdine, similiter eōs quī exasperant, quī habitant in sepulchrīs.^God who maketh men of one manner to dwell in a house; who bringeth out them that were bound in strength, in like manner them that provoke, that dwell in sepulchres.
Deus, cum ēgrederēris in conspectū populī tuī, cum pertransīrēs in dēsertō,^O God, when thou didst go forth in the sight of thy people, when thou didst pass through the desert,
terra mōta est, etenim caelī stillāvērunt ā faciē Deī Sīnae, ā faciē Deī Isrāhel.^the earth was moved, and the heavens dropped before the face of the God of Sinai, before the face of the God of Israel.
Pluviam voluntāriam sēgregābis, Deus, hērēditātī tuae, et infirmāta est, tū vērō perfēcistī eam.^Thou shalt set aside for thy inheritance a free rain, O God, and it was weakened, but thou hast made it perfect.
Animālia tua habitābunt in eā; parāstī in dulcēdine tuā pauperī, Deus.^In it shall thy animals dwell; in thy sweetness, O God, thou hast provided for the poor.
Dominus dabit verbum ēvangelīzantibus, virtūte multa.^The Lord shall give the word to them that preach good tidings with great power.
Rēx virtūtum dīlēctī, dīlēctī, et speciēī domūs dīvidēre spolia.^The king of powers is of the beloved, of the beloved, and the beauty of the house shall divide spoils.
Sī dormiātis inter mediōs clērōs, pennae columbae deargentātae, et posteriōra dorsī ejus in pallōre aurī.^If you sleep among the midst of lots, you shall be as the wings of a dove covered with silver, and the hinder parts of her back with the paleness of gold.
Dum discernit caelestis rēgēs super eam, nive dealbābuntur in Selmon.^When heaven discerns kings to be over her, they shall be whited with snow in Selmon.
Mons Deī, mons pinguis; mons coāgulātus, mons pinguis.^O mountain of God, fat mountain; O curdled mountain, fat mountain.
Ut quid suspicāminī, montēs coāgulātōs, mons, in quō benēplacitum est Deō habitāre in eō? Etenim Dominus habitābit in fīnem.^Why suspect, ye curdled mountains, the mountain, in which God is well pleased to dwell? For there the Lord shall dwell unto the end.
Currus Deī decem mīllibus multiplex, mīllia laetantium; Dominus in eīs in Sīna, in sānctō.^The chariot of God is attended by ten thousands, thousands of them that rejoice; the Lord is among them in Sina, in the holy place.
Ascendistī in altum, cēpistī captīvitātem, accēpistī dōna in hominibus; etenim nōn crēdentēs, inhabitāre Dominum Deum.^Thou hast ascended on high, thou hast led captivity captive, thou hast received gifts in men; yea for those also that do not believe, the dwelling of the Lord God.
Benedictus Dominus diē quotīdiē; prōsperum iter faciet nōbīs Deus salūtārium nostrōrum.^Blessed be the Lord day by day; the God of our salvation will make our journey prosperous to us.
Deus noster, Deus salvōs faciendī, et Dominī, Dominī exitūs mortis.^Our God is the God of salvation, and of the Lord, of the Lord are the ways out from death.
Vērumtamen Deus confringet capita inimīcōrum suōrum, verticem capillī perambulantium in dēlictīs suīs.^But God shall break the heads of his enemies, the hairy crown of them that walk on in their sins.
Dīxit Dominus: Ex Bāsān convertam, convertam in profundum maris,^The Lord said: I will turn them from Basan, I will turn them into the depth of the sea,
ut intingātur pēs tuus in sanguine; lingua canum tuōrum ex inimīcīs, ab ipsō.^that thy foot may be dipped in the blood of thy enemies; the tongue of thy dogs be red with the same.
Vīdērunt ingressūs tuōs, Deus, ingressūs Deī meī, rēgis meī quī est in sānctō.^They have seen thy goings, O God, the goings of my God, of my king who is in his sanctuary.
Praevēnērunt prīncipēs conjūnctī psallentibus, in mediō juvenculārum timpanistriārum.^Princes went before joined with singers, in the midst of young damsels playing on timbrels.
In ecclēsiīs, benedīcite Deō Dominō, dē fontibus Isrāhel.^In the churches bless ye God the Lord, from the fountains of Israel.
Ibī Benjamin adolēscentulus, in mentis excessū; prīncipēs Jūda, ducēs eōrum; prīncipēs Zabulon, prīncipēs Nehthali.^There is Benjamin a youth, in ecstasy of mind; the princes of Juda are their leaders; the princes of Zabulon, the princes of Nephthali.
Mandā, Deus, virtūtī tuae; confirmā hoc Deus, quod operātus es in nōbīs.^Command thy strength, O God; confirm this, O God, what thou hast wrought in us.
Ā templō tuō in Jerusalem, tibī offerent rēgēs mūnera.^From thy temple in Jerusalem, kings shall offer presents to thee.
Increpā ferās arundinis; congregātiō taurōrum in vaccīs populōrum, ut exclūdant eōs quī probātī sunt argentō. Dissipā gentēs, quae bella volunt.^Rebuke the wild beasts of the reeds; the congregation of bulls with the cows of the people, who seek to exclude them who are tried with silver. Scatter thou the nations that delight in wars.
Venient lēgātī ex Aegiptō; Aethiopia praeveniet manūs ejus Deō.^Ambassadors shall come out of Egypt; Ethiopia shall soon stretch out her hands to God.
Rēgna terrae, cantāte Deō; psallite Dominō; psallite Deō,^Sing to God, ye kingdoms of the earth; sing ye to the Lord; Sing ye to God,
quī ascendit super caelum caelī, ad orientem; ecce dabit vōcī suae vōcem virtūtis.^Who mounteth above the heaven of heavens, to the east; behold he will give to his voice the voice of power.
Date glōriam Deō super Isrāhel; magnificentia ejus et virtūs ejus in nūbibus.^Give ye glory to God for Israel; his magnificence and his power is in the clouds.
Mīrābilis Deus in sānctīs suīs; Deus Isrāhel ipse dabit virtūtem et fortitūdinem plēbī suae. Benedictus Deus.^God is wonderful in his saints; the God of Israel is he who will give power and strength to his people. Blessed be God.
