In tē Domine spērāvī, nōn confundar in aeternum.^In thee, O Lord, I have hoped, let me never be put to confusion.
In jūstitiā tuā līberā mē, et ēripe mē; inclīnā ad mē aurem tuam, et salvā mē.^Deliver me in thy justice, and rescue me; incline thy ear unto me, and save me.
Ēsto mihī in Deum prōtēctōrem, et in locum mūnītum, ut salvum mē faciās, quoniam firmāmentum meum et refugium meum es tū.^Be thou unto me a God, a protector, and a place of strength, that thou mayst make me safe, for thou art my firmament and my refuge.
Deus meus, ēripe mē dē manū peccātōris, et dē manū contrā lēgem agentis et inīquī,^Deliver me, O my God, out of the hand of the sinner, and out of the hand of the transgressor of the law and of the unjust,
quoniam tū es patientia mea, Domine; Domine, spēs mea ā juventūte meā.^for thou art my patience, O Lord; my hope, O Lord, from my youth.
In tē confirmātus sum ex uterō; dē ventre mātris meae tū es prōtēctor meus; in tē cantātiō mea semper.^By thee have I been confirmed from the womb; from my mother's womb thou art my protector; of thee is my song always.
Tamquam prōdigium factus sum multīs, et tū adjūtor fortis.^I am become unto many as a wonder, but thou art a strong helper.
Repleātur os meum laude, ut cantem glōriam tuam; tōtā diē magnitūdinem tuam.^Let my mouth be filled with praise, that I may sing thy glory; thy greatness all the day long.
Nē prōjiciās mē in tempore senectūtis; cum dēfēcerit virtūs mea, nē dērelinquās mē.^Cast me not off in the time of old age; when my strength shall fail, do not thou forsake me.
Quia dīxērunt inimīcī meī mihī, et quī cūstōdiēbant animam meam consilium fēcērunt in ūnum,^For my enemies have spoken against me; and they that watched my soul have consulted together,
dīcentēs: Deus dērelīquit eum; persequiminī et comprehendite eum, quia nōn est quī ēripiat.^Saying: God hath forsaken him; pursue and take him, for there is none to deliver him.
Deus, nē ēlongēris ā mē; Deus meus, in auxilium meum respice.^O God, be not thou far from me; O my God, make haste to my help.
Confundantur et dēficiant dētrahentēs animae meae; operiantur confūsiōne et pudōre quī quaerunt mala mihī.^Let them be confounded and come to nothing that detract my soul; let them be covered with confusion and blame that seek my hurt.
Ego autem semper spērābō, et adjiciam super omnem laudem tuam.^But I will always hope, and will add to all thy praise.
Ōs meum adnuntiābit jūstitiam tuam, tōtā diē salūtāre tuum, quoniam nōn cognōvī litterātūram.^My mouth shall show forth thy justice, thy salvation all the day long, because I have not known learning.
Introībō in potentiās Dominī; Domine, memorābor jūstitiae tuae sōlīus.^I will enter into the powers of the Lord; O Lord, I will be mindful of thy justice alone.
Deus, docuistī mē ā juventūte meā, et usque nunc prōnuntiābō mīrābilia tua.^Thou hast taught me, O God, from my youth, and till now I will declare thy wonderful works.
Et usque in senectam et senium, Deus, nē dērelinquās mē, dōnec adnuntiem brāchium tuum generātiōnī omnī quae ventūra est.^And unto old age and grey hairs, O God, forsake me not, until I show forth thy arm to all the generation that is to come.
Potentiam tuam et jūstitiam tuam Deus usque in altissimā, quae fēcistī magnālia; Deus quis similis tibī?^Thy power and thy justice, O God, even to the highest great things thou hast done; O God, who is like to thee?
Quantās ostendistī mihī trībulātiōnēs multās et malās, et conversus vīvificāstī mē, et dē abissīs terrae iterum redūxistī mē.^How great troubles, many and grievous, hast thou shown me, and turning thou hast brought me to life, and hast brought me back again from the depths of the earth.
Multiplicāstī magnificentiam tuam, et conversus consōlātus es mē.^Thou hast multiplied thy magnificence, and turning to me thou hast comforted me.
Nam et ego confitēbor tibī in vāsīs psalmī vēritātem tuam, Deus; psallam tibī in citharā, Sanctus Isrāhēlis.^For I will also confess to thee thy truth with the instruments of psaltery, O God; I will sing to thee with the harp, thou holy one of Israel.
Exsultābunt labia mea cum cantāverō tibī, et anima mea quam redēmistī.^My lips shall greatly rejoice, when I shall sing to thee; and my soul which thou hast redeemed.
Sed et lingua mea tōtā diē meditābitur jūstitiam tuam, cum confūsī et reveritī fuerint quī quaerunt mala mihī.^Yea and my tongue shall meditate on thy justice all the day, when they shall be confounded and put to shame that seek evils to me.
