Ut quid, Deus, repulistī in fīnem, īrātus est furor tuus super ovēs pāscuae tuae?^Why, O God, hast thou cast us off unto the end, thy wrath enkindled against the sheep of thy pasture?
Memor estō congregātiōnis tuae, quam possēdistī ab initiō; redēmistī virgam hērēditātis tuae; mons Sīon in quō habitāstī in eō.^Remember thy congregation, which thou hast possessed from the beginning; the sceptre of thy inheritance which thou hast redeemed; mount Sion in which thou hast dwelt.
Levā manūs tuās in superbiās eōrum in fīnem, quanta malignātus est inimīcus in sānctō.^Lift up thy hands against their pride unto the end, how many things the enemy hath done wickedly in the sanctuary.
Et glōriātī sunt quī ōdērunt tē in mediō sōlemnitātis tuae; posuērunt signa sua, signa,^And they that hate thee have made their boasts in the midst of thy solemnity; they have set up their ensigns, signs,
et nōn cognōvērunt sīcut in exitū super summum.^and they knew it not as in the going out upon the highest top.
Quasi in silvā lignōrum secūribus, excīdērunt iānuās ejus in idipsum; in secūrī et asciā dēiēcērunt eam.^As with axes in a wood of trees, they have cut down at once the gates thereof; with axe and hatchet they have brought it down.
Incendērunt ignī Sānctuārium tuum; in terrā polluērunt tabernāculum nōminis tuī.^They have set fire to thy sanctuary; they have defiled the dwelling place of thy name on the earth.
Dīxērunt in corde suō cognātiō eōrum simul: Quiēscere faciāmus omnēs diēs fēstōs Deī ā terrā.^They said in their heart, the whole kindred of them together: Let us make to cease all the festival days of God from the land.
Signa nostra nōn vīdimus; jam nōn est profēta, et nōs nōn cognōscet amplius.^Our signs we have not seen; there is now no prophet, and he will know us no more.
Usquequo, Deus, improperābit inimīcus? Inrītat adversārius nōmen tuum in fīnem?^How long, O God, shall the enemy reproach? Is the adversary to provoke thy name for ever?
Ut quid āvertis manum tuam, et dexteram tuam dē mediō sinū tuō in fīnem?^Why dost thou turn away thy hand, and thy right hand out of the midst of thy bosom for ever?
Deus autem rēx noster ante saecula; operātus est salūtem in mediō terrae.^But God is our king before ages; he hath wrought salvation in the midst of the earth.
Tū confirmāstī in virtūte tuā mare; contrībulāstī capita dracōnum in aquīs.^Thou by thy strength didst make the sea firm; thou didst crush the heads of the dragons in the waters.
Tū confrēgistī capita dracōnis; dedistī eum ēscam populīs Aethiopum.^Thou hast broken the heads of the dragon; thou hast given him to be meat for the people of the Ethiopians.
Tū dīrūpistī fontēs et torrentēs; tū siccāstī fluviōs Ēthān.^Thou hast broken up the fountains and the torrents; thou hast dried up the Ethan rivers.
Tuus est diēs, et tua est nox; tū fabricātus es aurōram et sōlem.^Thine is the day, and thine is the night; thou hast made the morning light and the sun.
Tū fēcistī omnēs terminōs terrae; aestātem et vēr, tū plasmāstī ea.^Thou hast made all the borders of the earth; the summer and the spring, thou hast formed them.
Memor estō hujus, inimīcus improperāvit Dominō, et populus insapiens incitāvit nōmen tuum.^Remember this, the enemy hath reproached the Lord, and a foolish people hath provoked thy name.
Nē trādās bēstiīs animās confitentēs tibī, et animās pauperum tuōrum nē oblīvīscāris in fīnem.^Deliver not up to beasts the souls that confess to thee, and forget not to the end the souls of thy poor.
Respice in testāmentum tuum, quia replētī sunt, quī obscūrātī sunt terrae domibus inīquitātum.^Have regard to thy covenant, for they that are the obscure of the earth have been filled with dwellings of iniquity.
Nē āvertātur humilis factus confūsus; pauper et inops laudābunt nōmen tuum.^Let not the humble be turned away confounded; the poor and needy shall praise thy name.
Exsurge, Deus; jūdicā causam tuam; memor estō improperiōrum tuōrum, eōrum quae ab insapientī sunt tōtā diē.^Arise, O God; judge thy own cause; remember thy reproaches with which the foolish man hath reproached thee all the day.
Nē oblīvīscāris vōcēs inimīcōrum tuōrum; superbia eōrum quī tē ōdērunt ascendit semper.^Forget not the voices of thy enemies; the pride of them that hate thee ascendeth continually.
