Vōce meā ad Dominum clāmāvī; vōce meā ad Deum, et intendit mihī.^I cried to the Lord with my voice; to God with my voice, and he gave ear to me.
In diē trībulātiōnis meae Deum exquīsīvī, manibus meīs nocte contrā eum, et nōn sum dēceptus; renuit consōlārī anima mea.^In the days of my trouble I sought God, with my hands lifted up to him in the night, and I was not deceived; my soul refused to be comforted.
Memor fuī Deī, et dēlectātus sum, et exercitātus sum, et dēfēcit spīritus meus.^I remembered God, and was delighted, and was exercised, and my spirit swooned away.
Anticipāvērunt vigiliās oculī meī; turbātus sum, et nōn sum locūtus.^My eyes prevented the watches; I was troubled, and I spoke not.
Cōgitāvī diēs antīquōs, et annōs aeternōs in mente habuī,^I thought upon the days of old, and I had in my mind the eternal years.
Et meditātus sum nocte cum corde meō, et exercitābar, et scopēbam spīritum meum.^And I meditated in the night with my own heart, and I was exercised and I swept my spirit.
Numquid in aeternum prōjiciet Deus? Aut nōn appōnet ut complacitior sit adhūc?^Will God then cast off for ever? Or will he never be more favourable again?
Aut in fīnem misericordiam suam abscindet, ā generātiōne in generātiōnem?^Or will he cut off his mercy for ever, from generation to generation?
Aut oblīvīscētur miserērī Deus? Aut continēbit in īrā suā misericordiās suās?^Or will God forget to show mercy? Or will he in his anger shut up his mercies?
Et dīxī: Nunc coepī; haec mūtātiō dexterae Excelsī.^And I said: Now have I begun; this is the change of the right hand of the most High.
Memor fuī operum Dominī, quia memor erō ab initiō mīrābilium tuōrum,^I remembered the works of the Lord, for I will be mindful of thy wonders from the beginning.
et meditābor in omnibus operibus tuīs, et in adinventiōnibus tuīs exercēbor.^And I will meditate on all thy works, and will be employed in thy inventions.
Deus, in sānctō via tua; quis Deus magnus sīcut Deus noster?^Thy way, O God, is in the holy place; who is the great God like our God?
Tū es Deus quī facis mīrābilia; nōtam fēcistī in populīs virtūtem tuam.^Thou art the God that dost wonders; thou hast made thy power known among the nations.
Redēmistī in brāchiō tuō populum tuum, fīliōs Jācōb et Jōsēf.^With thy arm thou hast redeemed thy people, the children of Jacob and of Joseph.
Vīdērunt tē aquae, Deus; vīdērunt tē aquae, et timuērunt, et turbātae sunt abissī.^The waters saw thee, O God; the waters saw thee, and they were afraid, and the depths were troubled.
Multitūdō sonitūs aquārum; vōcem dedērunt nūbēs, etenim sagittae tuae trānseunt.^Great are the roarings of the waters; the clouds sent out a sound, and indeed thy arrows pass.
Vōx tonitruī tuī in rotā; illūxērunt coruscātiōnēs tuae orbī terrae; commōta est, et contremuit terra.^The voice of thy thunder in a wheel; thy lightnings enlightened the world; the earth shook and trembled.
In marī via tua, et sēmitae tuae in aquīs multīs, et vestīgia tua nōn cognōscentur.^Thy way is in the sea, and thy paths in many waters, and thy footsteps shall not be known.
Dēdūxistī sīcut ovēs populum tuum, in manū Mōsis et Aarōnis.^Thou hast conducted thy people like sheep, by the hand of Moses and Aaron.
