Attendite, popule meus, lēgem meam; inclīnāte aurem vestram in verba ōris meī.^Attend, O my people, to my law; incline your ears to the words of my mouth.
Aperiam in parabolīs ōs meum; loquar prōpositiōnēs ab initiō.^I will open my mouth in parables; I will utter propositions from the beginning.
Quanta audīvimus, et cognōvimus ea, et patrēs nostrī narrāvērunt nōbīs.^How great things have we heard, and we have known them, and our fathers have told us.
Nōn sunt occultāta ā fīliīs eōrum in generātiōne alterā. Narrantēs laudēs Dominī, et virtūtēs ejus, et mīrābilia ejus quae fēcit.^They have not been hidden from their children in another generation. Declaring the praises of the Lord, and his powers, and his wonders which he hath done.
Et suscitāvit testimōnium in Jācob, et lēgem posuit in Isrāhel, quanta mandāvit patribus nostrīs nōta facere ea fīliīs suīs,^And he set up a testimony in Jacob, and made a law in Israel, how great things he commanded our fathers that they should make them  known to their children,
ut cognōscat generātiō altera, fīliī quī nāscentur, et exsurgent et narrābunt fīliīs suīs,^that another generation might know them, sons that should be born, and should rise up and declare them to their children.
ut pōnant in Deō spem suam, et nōn oblīvīscantur operum Deī, et mandāta ejus exquīrant,^that they may put their hope in God, and may not forget the works of God, and may seek his commandments.
nē fīant sīcut patrēs eōrum, generātiō prāva et exasperans, generātiō quae nōn dīrēxit cor suum, et nōn est crēditus cum Deō spīritūs ejus.^that they may not become like their fathers, a perverse and exasperating generation, a generation that set not their heart aright, and whose spirit was not faithful to God.
Fīliī Efrāim intendentēs et mittentēs arcum; conversī sunt in diē bellī.^The sons of Ephraim who bend and shoot with the bow; they have turned back in the day of battle.
Nōn cūstōdīvērunt testāmentum Deī, et in lēge ejus nōluērunt ambulāre.^They kept not the covenant of God, and in his law they would not walk.
Et oblītī sunt benefactōrum ejus, et mīrābilium ejus quae ostendit eīs,^And they forgot his benefits, and his wonders that he had shown them,
cōram patribus eōrum fēcit mīrābilia in terrā Aegiptī, in campō Taneos.^wonderful things did he do in the sight of their fathers in the land of Egypt, in the field of Tanis.
Interrūpit mare, et perdūxit eōs; statuit aquās quasi in utre,^He divided the sea, and brought them through; he made the waters to stand as in a vessel.
et dēdūxit eōs in nūbe diēī, et tōtā nocte in illūminātiōne ignis.^and he conducted them with a cloud by day, and all the night with a light of fire.
Interrūpit petram in erēmō, et adaquāvit eōs velut in abissō multā.^He struck the rock in the wilderness, and gave them to drink as out of the great deep.
Et ēdūxit aquam dē petrā, et dēdūxit tamquam flūmina aquās.^And he brought forth water out of the rock, and made streams run down as rivers.
Et apposuērunt adhūc peccāre eī; in īram excitāvērunt Excelsum in inaquōsō.^And they added yet more sin against him; they provoked the most High to wrath in the place without water.
Et tentāvērunt Deum in cordibus suīs, ut peterent ēscās animābus suīs.^And they tempted God in their hearts, by asking meat for their desires.
Et male locūtī sunt dē Deō, et dīxērunt: Numquid poterit Deus parāre mensam in dēsertō?^And they spoke ill of God, and they said: Can God furnish a table in the wilderness?
Quoniam percussit petram, et flūxērunt aquae, et torrentēs inundāvērunt. Numquid et pānem poterit dare, aut parāre mensam populō suō?^Because he struck the rock, and the waters gushed out, and the streams overflowed. Can he also give bread, or provide a table for his people?
Ideō audīvit Dominus, et distulit, et ignis accensus est in Jācob, et īra ascendit in Isrāhel.^Therefore the Lord heard, and was angry, and a fire was kindled against Jacob, and wrath came up against Israel.
Quia nōn crēdidērunt in Deō, nec spērāvērunt in salūtārī ejus.^Because they believed not in God, and trusted not in his salvation.
Et mandāvit nūbibus dēsuper, et iānuās caelī aperuit.^And he had commanded the clouds from above, and had opened the doors of heaven.
Et pluit illīs mannam ad mandūcandum, et pānem caelī dedit eīs.^And had rained down manna upon them to eat, and had given them the bread of heaven.
Pānem angelōrum mandūcāvit homō; cibāria mīsit eīs in abundantiā.^Man ate the bread of angels; he sent them provisions in abundance.
Transtulit Austrum dē caelō, et indūxit in virtūte suā Āfricum.^He removed the south wind from heaven, and by his power brought in the southwest wind.
Et pluit super eōs sīcut pulverem carnēs, et sīcut arēnam maris volātilia pennāta.^And he rained upon them flesh as dust, and feathered fowls like as the sand of the sea.
Et cecidērunt in mediō castrōrum eōrum, circā tabernācula eōrum.^And they fell in the midst of their camp, round about their pavilions.
Et mandūcāvērunt, et saturātī sunt nimis, et dēsīderium eōrum attulit eīs;^So they did eat, and were filled exceedingly, and he gave them their desire;
nōn sunt fraudātī ā dēsīderiō suō. Adhūc escae eōrum erant in ōre ipsōrum,^they were not defrauded of that which they craved. As yet their meat was in their mouth,
et īra Deī ascendit super eōs, et occīdit pinguēs eōrum, et ēlectōs Isrāhel impedīvit.^and the wrath of God came upon them, and he slew the fat ones amongst them, and brought down the chosen men of Israel.
In omnibus hīs peccāvērunt adhūc, et nōn crēdidērunt in mīrābilibus ejus.^In all these things they sinned still, and they behaved not for his wondrous works.
Et dēfēcērunt in vānitāte diēs eōrum, et annī eōrum cum festīnātiōne.^And their days were consumed in vanity, and their years in haste.
Cum occīderet eōs, quaerēbant eum, et revertēbantur, et dīlūculō veniēbant ad eum.^When he slew them, then they sought him, and they returned, and came to him early in the morning.
Et rememorātī sunt quia Deus adjūtor est eōrum, et Deus excelsus redēmptor eōrum est.^And they remembered that God was their helper, and the most high God their redeemer.
Et dīlēxērunt eum in ōre suō, et linguā suā mentītī sunt eī.^And they loved him with their mouth, and with their tongue they lied unto him.
Cor autem eōrum nōn erat rēctum cum eō, nec fidēlēs habitī sunt in testāmentō ejus.^But their heart was not right with him, nor were they counted faithful in his covenant.
Ipse autem est misericors, et propitius fīet peccātīs eōrum, et nōn disperdet eōs, et abundāvit ut āverteret īram suam, et nōn accendit omnem īram suam.^But he is merciful, and will forgive their sins, and will not destroy them, and many a time did he turn away his anger, and did not kindle all his wrath.
Et recordātus est quia carō sunt, spīritus vādens et nōn rediens.^And he remembered that they are flesh, a wind that goeth and returneth not.
Quotiēs exacerbāvērunt eum in dēsertō; in īram concitāvērunt eum in inaquōsō.^How often did they provoke him in the desert; they moved him to wrath in the place without water.
Et conversī sunt, et tentāvērunt Deum, et Sanctum Isrāhel exacerbāvērunt.^And they turned back, and tempted God, and grieved the holy one of Israel.
Nōn sunt recordātī manūs ejus, diē quā redēmit eōs dē manū trībulantis;^They remembered not his hand, in the day that he redeemed them from the hand of him that afflicted them;
sīcut posuit in Aegiptō signa sua, et prōdigia sua in campō Taneos.^how he wrought his signs in Egypt, and his wonders in the field of Tanis.
Et convertit in sanguinem flūmina eōrum, et imbrēs eōrum, nē biberent.^And he turned their rivers into blood, and their showers that they might not drink.
Mīsit in eōs cinomiam, et comēdit eōs, et rānam, et disperdidit eōs.^He sent amongst them divers sorts of flies, and it devoured them, and frogs, and it destroyed them.
Et dedit aerūginī frūctūs eōrum, et labōrēs eōrum locustae.^And he gave up their fruits to the blast, and their labours to the locust.
Et occīdit in grandine vīneās eōrum, et mōrōs eōrum in pruīnā.^And he destroyed their vineyards with hail, and their mulberry trees with hoarfrost.
Et trādidit grandinī jūmenta eōrum, et possessiōnem eōrum ignī.^And he gave up their cattle to the hail, and their stock to the fire.
Mīsit in eōs īram indignātiōnis suae, indignātiōnem et īram et trībulātiōnem, immissiōnēs per angelōs malōs.^And he sent upon them the wrath of his indignation, indignation and wrath and trouble, a sending forth by evil angels.
Viam fēcit sēmitae īrae suae; nōn pepercit ā morte animābus eōrum, et jūmenta eōrum in morte conclūsit.^He made a way for a path to his anger; he spared not their souls from death, and their cattle he shut up in death.
Et percussit omne prīmōgenitum in terrā Aegiptī; prīmitiās omnis labōris eōrum in tabernāculīs Cham.^And he killed all the firstborn in the land of Egypt; the firstfruits of all their labour in the tabernacles of Cham.
Et abstulit sīcut ovēs populum suum, et perdūxit eōs tamquam gregem in dēsertō.^And he took away his own people as sheep, and guided them in the wilderness like a flock.
Et dēdūxit eōs in spē, et nōn timuērunt, et inimīcōs eōrum operuit mare.^And he brought them out in hope, and they feared not, and the sea overwhelmed their enemies.
Et indūxit eōs in montem sanctificātiōnis suae, montem quem acquīsīvit dexterā ejus.^And he brought them into the mountain of his sanctuary, the mountain which his right hand had purchased.
Et ēiēcit ā faciē eōrum Gentēs, et sorte dīvīsit eīs terram in fūniculō distribūtiōnis, et habitāre fēcit in tabernāculīs eōrum tribūs Isrāhel.^And he cast out the Gentiles before them, and by lot divided to them their land by a line of distribution, and he made the tribes of Israel to dwell in their tabernacles.
Et tentāvērunt, et exacerbāvērunt Deum excelsum, et testimōnia ejus nōn cūstōdīvērunt.^Yet they tempted, and provoked the most high God, and they kept not his testimonies.
Et āvertērunt sē, et nōn servāvērunt pactum, quemadmodum patrēs eōrum; conversī sunt in arcum prāvum.^And they turned away, and kept not the covenant, even like their fathers; they were turned aside as a crooked bow.
In īram concitāvērunt eum in collibus suīs, et in sculptilibus suīs ad aemulātiōnem eum prōvocāvērunt.^They provoked him to anger on their hills, and moved him to jealousy with their graven things.
Audīvit Deus, et sprēvit, et ad nihilum redēgit valdē Isrāhel.^God heard, and despised them, and he reduced Israel exceedingly as it were to nothing.
Et repulit tabernāculum Sīlō, tabernāculum suum, ubī habitāvit in hominibus.^And he put away the tabernacle of Silo, his tabernacle, where he dwelt among men.
Et trādidit in captīvitātem virtūtem eōrum, et pulchritūdinem eōrum in manūs inimīcī.^And he delivered their strength into captivity, and their beauty into the hands of the enemy.
Et conclūsit in gladiō populum suum, et hērēditātem suam sprēvit.^And he shut up his people under the sword, and he despised his inheritance.
Juvenēs eōrum comēdit ignīs, et virginēs eōrum nōn sunt lāmentātae.^Fire consumed their young men, and their maidens were not lamented.
Sacerdōtēs eōrum in gladiō cecidērunt, et viduae eōrum nōn plōrābantur.^Their priests fell by the sword, and their widows did not mourn.
Et excitātus est tamquam dormiens Dominus, tamquam potens crāpulātus ā vīnō.^And the Lord was awaked as one out of sleep, so as a mighty man that hath been surfeited with wine.
Et percussit inimīcōs suōs in posteriōra; opprobrium sempiternum dēdit illīs.^And he smote his enemies on the hinder parts; he put them to an everlasting reproach.
Et repulit tabernāculum Jōsef, et tribum Efrāim nōn ēlēgit,^And he rejected the tabernacle of Joseph, and chose not the tribe of Ephraim,
sed ēlēgit tribum Jūda, montem Sīon quem dīlēxit.^but he chose the tribe of Juda, mount Sion which he loved.
Et aedificāvit sīcut ūnicornium sanctificium suum, in terrā quam fundāvit in saecula.^And he built his sanctuary as of unicorns, in the land which he founded for ever.
Et ēlēgit Dāvīd servum suum, et sustulit eum dē gregibus ovium;^And he chose his servant David, and took him from the flocks of sheep;
Dē post fētantēs accēpit eum, pāscere Jācob servum suum, et Isrāhel hērēditātem suam.^he brought him from following the ewes great with young, to feed Jacob his servant, and Israel his inheritance.
Et pāvit eōs in innocentiā cordis suī, et in intellēctibus manuum suārum dēdūxit eōs.^And he fed them in the innocence of his heart, and conducted them by the skilfulness of his hands.
