Deus, vēnērunt Gentēs in hērēditātem tuam; polluērunt templum sanctum tuum; posuērunt Jerusalem in pōmōrum custōdiam.^O God, the heathens are come into thy inheritance; they have defiled thy holy temple; they have made Jerusalem as a place to keep fruit.
Posuērunt morticīna servōrum tuōrum ēscās volātilibus caelī; carnēs sanctōrum tuōrum bēstiīs terrae.^They have given the dead bodies of thy servants to be meat for the fowls of the air; the flesh of thy saints for the beasts of the earth.
Effūdērunt sanguinem eōrum tamquam aquam in circumitū Jerusalem, et nōn erat quī sepelīret.^They have poured out their blood as water round about Jerusalem, and there was none to bury them.
Factī sumus opprobrium vīcīnīs nostrīs; subsannātiō et illūsiō hīs quī in circumitū nostrō sunt.^We are become a reproach to our neighbours; a scorn and derision to them that are round about us.
Usquequo, Domine? Īrāsceris in fīnem? Accendētur velut ignis zēlus tuus?^How long, O Lord? Wilt thou be angry for ever? Shall thy zeal be kindled like a fire?
Effunde īram tuam in Gentēs quae tē nōn nōvērunt, et in rēgna quae nōmen tuum nōn invocāvērunt,^Pour out thy wrath upon the nations that have not known thee, and upon the kingdoms that have not called upon thy name,
quia comēdērunt Jācob, et locum ejus dēsōlāvērunt.^because they have devoured Jacob; and have laid waste his place.
Nē meminerīs inīquitātum nostrārum antīquārum; cito anticipent nōs misericordiae tuae, quia pauperēs factī sumus nimis.^Remember not our former iniquities; let thy mercies speedily prevent us, for we are become exceeding poor.
Adjuvā nōs, Deus salūtāris noster, et propter glōriam nōminis tuī, Domine, līberā nōs, et propitius estō peccātīs nostrīs, propter nōmen tuum,^Help us, O God our saviour, and for the glory of thy name, O Lord, deliver us, and forgive us our sins for thy name's sake,
nē forte dīcant in Gentibus: Ubī est Deus eōrum? Et innōtēscat in nātiōnibus cōram oculīs nostrīs, ultiō sanguinis servōrum tuōrum, quī effūsus est.^lest they should say among the Gentiles: Where is their God? And let him be made known among the nations before our eyes, by the revenging the blood of thy servants which hath been shed.
Introeat in conspectū tuō gemitus compedītōrum; secundum magnitūdinem brāchiī tuī possidē fīliōs mortificātōrum,^Let the sighing of the prisoners come in before thee. According to the greatness of thy arm, take possession of the children of them that have been put to death.
et redde vīcīnīs nostrīs septuplum in sinū eōrum, improperium ipsōrum, quod exprobrāvērunt tibī Domine.^And render to our neighbours sevenfold in their bosom, the reproach of the same, wherewith they have reproached thee, O Lord.
Nōs autem populus tuus, et ovēs pāscuae tuae, confitēbimur tibī in saeculum; in generātiōnem et generātiōnem adnuntiābimus laudem tuam.^But we thy people, and the sheep of thy pasture, will give thanks to thee for ever. We will show forth thy praise, unto generation and generation.
