Quī regis Isrāhel, intende, quī dēdūcis velut ovem Jōsef. Quī sedēs super cherubim, manifestāre.^O thou that rulest Israel, give ear, thou that leadest Joseph like a sheep. Thou that sittest upon the cherubims, shine forth.
Cōram Efrāim, Benjamin, et Manāssē excitā potentiam tuam, et venī ut salvōs faciās nōs.^Before Ephraim, Benjamin, and Manasses stir up thy might, and come to save us.
Deus, converte nōs, et ostende faciem tuam, et salvī erimus.^O God, convert us, and show us thy face, and we shall be saved.
Domine Deus virtūtum, quousque īrāsceris super ōrātiōnem servī tuī?^O Lord God of hosts, how long wilt thou be angry against the prayer of thy servant?
Cibābis nōs pāne lacrimārum, et pōtum dabis nōbīs in lacrimīs in mensūrā?^How long wilt thou feed us with the bread of tears, and give us for our drink tears in measure?
Posuistī nōs in contrādictiōnem vīcīnīs nostrīs, et inimīcī nostrī subsannāvērunt nōs.^Thou hast made us to be a contradiction to our neighbours, and our enemies have scoffed at us.
Deus virtūtum, converte nōs, et ostende faciem tuam, et salvī erimus.^O God of hosts, convert us, and show thy face, and we shall be saved.
Vīneam dē Aegiptō transtulistī; ējēcistī Gentēs, et plantāstī eam.^Thou hast brought a vineyard out of Egypt; thou hast cast out the Gentiles and planted it.
Dux itineris fuistī in conspectū ejus; plantāstī rādīcēs ejus, et implēvit terram.^Thou wast the guide of its journey in its sight; thou plantedst the roots thereof, and it filled the land.
Operuit montēs umbra ejus, et arbusta ejus cedrōs Deī.^The shadow of it covered the hills, and the branches thereof the cedars of God.
Extendit palmitēs suōs usque ad mare, et usque ad flūmen propāginēs ejus.^It stretched forth its branches unto the sea, and its boughs unto the river.
Ut quid dēstrūxistī māceriam ejus, et vīndēmiant eam omnēs, quī praetergrediuntur viam?^Why hast thou broken down the hedge thereof, so that all they who pass by the way do pluck it?
Extermināvit eam aper dē silvā, et singulāris ferus dēpāstus est eam.^The boar from the wood hath laid it waste, and a singular wild beast hath devoured it.
Deus virtūtum, convertere; respice dē caelō, et vidē, et vīsitā vīneam istam,^O God of hosts, turn again; look down from heaven, and see, and visit this vineyard,
et perfice eam quam plantāvit dexterā tuā, et super fīlium hominis quem confirmāstī tibī.^and perfect the same which thy right hand hath planted, and upon the son of man whom thou hast confirmed for thyself.
Incensa ignī et suffossa; ab increpātiōne vultūs tuī perībunt.^It is burned with fire and dug up; at the rebuke of thy countenance they shall perish.
Fīat manus tua super virum dexterae tuae, et super fīlium hominis, quem confirmāstī tibī.^Let thy hand be upon the man of thy right hand, and upon the son of man whom thou hast confirmed for thyself.
Et nōn discēdimus ā tē; vīvificābis nōs, et nōmen tuum invocābimus.^And we depart not from thee; thou shalt quicken us, and we will call upon thy name.
Domine Deus virtūtum, converte nōs, et ostende faciem tuam, et salvī erimus.^O Lord God of hosts, convert us, and show thy face, and we shall be saved.
