Exsultāte Deō adjūtōrī nostrō; jūbilāte Deō Jācōb.^Rejoice to God our helper; sing aloud to the God of Jacob.
Sūmite psalmum, et date timpanum; psaltērium jūcundum cum citharā.^Take a psalm, and bring hither the timbrel; the pleasant psaltery with the harp.
Būcināte in neomēniā tubā, in insignī diē sōlemnitātis vestrae,^Give sound with the trumpet on the new moon, on the noted day of your solemnity,
quia praeceptum in Isrāhel est, et jūdicium Deō Jācōb.^for it is a commandment in Israel, and a judgment to the God of Jacob.
Testimōnium in Jōsef posuit illud, cum exīret dē terrā Aegiptī; linguam quam nōn nōverat, audīvit.^He ordained it for a testimony in Joseph, when he came out of the land of Egypt; a tongue which he knew not, he heard.
Dīvertit ab oneribus dorsum ejus; manūs ejus in cofinō servīvērunt.^He removed his back from the burdens; his hands had served in baskets.
In trībulātiōne invocāstī mē, et līberāvī tē; exaudīvī tē in absconditō tempestātis; probāvī tē apud aquam contrādictiōnis.^Thou calledst upon me in affliction, and I delivered thee; I heard thee in the secret place of tempest; I proved thee at the waters of contradiction.
Audī, populus meus, et contestābor tē; Isrāhel sī audīverīs mē.^Hear, O my people, and I will testify to thee; O Israel, if thou wilt hearken to me.
Nōn erit in tē deus recens, neque adōrābis deum aliēnum.^There shall be no new god in thee, nor shalt thou adore a strange god.
Ego enim sum Dominus Deus tuus, quī ēdūxī tē dē terrā Aegiptī; dīlātā os tuum, et implēbō illud.^For I am the Lord thy God, who brought thee out of the land of Egypt; open thy mouth wide, and I will fill it.
Et nōn audīvit populus meus vōcem meam, et Isrāhel nōn intendit mihī.^But my people heard not my voice, and Israel hearkened not to me.
Et dīmīsī eōs secundum dēsīderia cordis eōrum; ībunt in adinventiōnibus suīs.^So I let them go according to the desires of their heart; they shall walk in their own inventions.
Sī populus meus audīvisset mē, Isrāhel sī in viīs meīs ambulāsset,^If my people had heard me, if Israel had walked in my ways,
prō nihilō forsitan inimīcōs eōrum humiliāssem, et super trībulantēs eōs mīsissem manum meam.^I should soon have humbled their enemies, and laid my hand on them that troubled them.
Inimīcī Dominī mentītī sunt eī, et erit tempus eōrum in saecula.^The enemies of the Lord have lied to him, and their time shall be for ever.
Et cibāvit eōs ex adipe frūmentī, et dē petrā, melle saturāvit eōs.^And he fed them with the fat of wheat, and filled them with honey out of the rock.
