Deus, quis similis erit tibī? Nē taceās, neque compescāris, Deus,^O God, who shall be like to thee? Hold not thy peace, neither be thou still, O God,
quoniam ecce inimīcī tuī sonuērunt, et quī ōdērunt tē, extulērunt caput.^for behold thy enemies have made a noise, and they that hate thee have lifted up the head.
Super populum tuum malignāvērunt consilium, et cōgitāvērunt adversus sanctōs tuōs.^They have taken a malicious counsel against thy people, and have consulted against thy saints.
Dīxērunt: Venīte, et disperdāmus eōs dē gente, et nōn memorētur nōmen Isrāhel ultrā.^They have said: Come, and let us destroy them so that they be not a nation, and let the name of Israel be remembered no more.
Quoniam cōgitāvērunt ūnanimiter; simul adversum tē testāmentum disposuērunt,^For they have contrived with one consent; they have made a covenant together against thee,
tabernācula Idūmaeōrum et Ismāhelītae; Mōab et Aggarēnī,^The tabernacle of the Edomites and the Ishmahelites; Moab and the Agarens,
Gebal et Ammōn et Amalec; aliēnigenae cum habitantibus Tirum.^Gebal and Ammon and Amalec; the Philistines with the inhabitants of Tyre.
Etenim Assur vēnit cum illīs; factī sunt in adjūtōrium fīliīs Lot.^For ever the Assyrian is joined with them; they are come to the aid of the sons of Lot.
Fac illīs sīcut Madīan et Sīsarae, sīcut Jābin in torrente Cisson.^Do to them as thou didst to Madian and to Sisara, as to Jabin at the brook of Cisson.
Disperīvērunt in Endor; factī sunt ut stercus terrae.^Who perished at Endor; and became as dung for the earth.
Pōne prīncipēs eōrum sīcut Oreb et Zeb et Zebee et Salmana; omnēs prīncipēs eōrum,^Make their princes like Oreb and Zeb and Zebee and Salmana; all their princes,
quī dīxērunt: Hērēditāte possideāmus Sanctuārium Deī.^who have said: Let us possess the sanctuary of God for an inheritance.
Deus meus, pōne illōs ut rotam, et sīcut stipulam ante faciem ventī.^O my God, make them like a wheel, and as stubble before the wind.
Sīcut ignis quī combūrit silvam, et sīcut flamma combūrens montēs,^As fire which burneth the wood, and as a flame burning mountains,
ita persequeris illōs in tempestāte tuā, et in īrā tuā turbābis eōs.^so shalt thou pursue them with thy tempest, and shalt trouble them in thy wrath.
Implē faciēs eōrum ignōminiā, et quaerent nōmen tuum, Domine.^Fill their faces with shame, and they shall seek thy name, O Lord.
Ērubēscant, et conturbentur in saeculum saeculī, et confundantur, et pereant.^Let them be ashamed and troubled for ever and ever, and let them be confounded and perish.
Et cognōscant quia nōmen tibī Dominus; tū sōlus Altissimus in omnī terrā.^And let them know that the Lord is thy name; thou alone art the Most High over all the earth.
