Quam dīlēcta tabernācula tua Domine virtūtum.^How lovely are thy tabernacles, O Lord of hosts.
Concupīscit, et dēficit anima mea in ātria Dominī; cor meum et carō mea exsultāvērunt in Deum vīvum.^my soul longeth and fainteth for the courts of the Lord. My heart and my flesh have rejoiced in the living God.
Etenim passer invēnit sibī domum, et turtur nīdum sibī, ubī pōnat pullōs suōs; altāria tua, Domine virtūtum, rēx meus, et Deus meus.^For the sparrow hath found herself a house, and the turtle a nest for herself where she may lay her young ones; thy altars, O Lord of hosts, my king and my God.
Beātī quī habitant in domō tuā, Domine; in saecula saeculōrum laudābunt tē.^Blessed are they that dwell in thy house, O Lord; they shall praise thee for ever and ever.
Beātus vir cuijus est auxilium ā tē; ascensiōnēs in corde suō disposuit,^Blessed is the man whose help is from thee; in his heart he hath disposed to ascend by steps,
in valle lacrimārum, in locō quem posuit.^In the vale of tears, in the place which he hath set.
Etenim benedictiōnem dabit lēgislātor; ībunt dē virtūte in virtūtem; vidēbitur Deus deōrum in Sīon.^For the lawgiver shall give a blessing; they shall go from virtue to virtue; the God of gods shall be seen in Sion.
Domine Deus virtūtum, exaudī ōrātiōnem meam; auribus percipe, Deus Jācōb.^O Lord God of hosts, hear my prayer; give ear, O God of Jacob.
Prōtēctor noster, aspice, Deus, et respice in faciem chrīstī tuī.^Behold, O God our protector, and look on the face of thy Christ.
Quia melior est diēs ūna in ātriīs tuīs super mīllia; ēlēgī abiectus esse in domō Deī meī magis quam habitāre in tabernāculīs peccātōrum.^For better is one day in thy courts above thousands; I have chosen to be an abject in the house of my God, rather than to dwell in the tabernacles of sinners.
Quia misericordiam et vēritātem dīligit Deus; grātiam et glōriam dabit Dominus.^For God loveth mercy and truth; the Lord will give grace and glory.
Nōn prīvābit bonīs eōs quī ambulant in innocentiā; Domine virtūtum, beātus homō quī spērat in tē.^He will not deprive of good things them that walk in innocence; O Lord of hosts, blessed is the man that trusteth in thee.
