Benedīxistī Domine terram tuam; āvertistī captīvitātem Jācob.^Lord, thou hast blessed thy land; thou hast turned away the captivity of Jacob.
Remīsistī inīquitātem plēbis tuae; operuistī omnia peccāta eōrum.^Thou hast forgiven the iniquity of thy people; thou hast covered all their sins.
Mītigāstī omnem īram tuam; āvertistī ab īrā indignātiōnis tuae.^Thou hast mitigated all thy anger; thou hast turned away from the wrath of thy indignation.
Converte nōs, Deus salūtāris noster, et āverte īram tuam ā nōbīs.^Convert us, O God our saviour, and turn off thy anger from us.
Numquid in aeternum īrāsceris nōbīs? Aut extendēs īram tuam ā generātiōne in generātiōnem?^Wilt thou be angry with us for ever, or wilt thou extend thy wrath from generation to generation?
Deus, tū conversus vīvificābis nōs, et plēbs tua laetābitur in tē.^Thou wilt turn, O God, and bring us to life, and thy people shall rejoice in thee.
Ostende nōbīs, Domine, misericordiam tuam, et salūtāre tuum dā nōbīs.^Show us, O Lord, thy mercy, and grant us thy salvation.
Audiam quid loquātur in mē Dominus Deus, quoniam loquētur pācem in plēbem suam, et super sanctōs suōs, et in eōs quī convertuntur ad cor.^I will hear what the Lord God will speak in me, for he will speak peace unto his people, and unto his saints, and unto them that are converted to the heart.
Vērumtamen prope timentēs eum salūtāre ipsīus, ut inhabitet glōria in terrā nostrā.^Surely his salvation is near to them that fear him, that glory may dwell in our land.
Misericordia et vēritās obviāvērunt sibī; jūstitia et pāx ōsculātae sunt.^Mercy and truth have met each other; justice and peace have kissed.
Vēritās dē terrā orta est, et jūstitia dē caelō prōspexit.^Truth is sprung out of the earth, and justice hath looked down from heaven.
Etenim Dominus dabit benignitātem, et terra nostra dabit frūctum suum.^For the Lord will give goodness, and our earth shall yield her fruit.
Jūstitia ante eum ambulābit, et pōnet in viā gressūs suōs.^Justice shall walk before him, and he shall set his steps in the way.
