Inclīnā, Domine, aurem tuam, et exaudī mē, quoniam inops et pauper sum ego.^Incline thy ear, O Lord, and hear me, for I am needy and poor.
Custōdī animam meam, quoniam sanctus sum; salvum fac servum tuum, Deus meus, spērantem in tē.^Preserve my soul, for I am holy; save thy servant, O my God, that trusteth in thee.
Miserēre meī, Domine, quoniam ad tē clāmāvī tōtā diē.^Have mercy on me, O Lord, for I have cried to thee all the day.
Laetificā animam servī tuī, quoniam ad tē, Domine, animam meam levāvī.^Give joy to the soul of thy servant, for to thee, O Lord, I have lifted up my soul.
Quoniam tū, Domine, suāvis et mītis, et multae misericordiae omnibus invocantibus tē.^For thou, O Lord, art sweet and mild, and plenteous in mercy to all that call upon thee.
Auribus percipe, Domine, ōrātiōnem meam, et intende vōcī dēprecātiōnis meae.^Give ear, O Lord, to my prayer, and attend to the voice of my petition.
In diē trībulātiōnis meae clāmāvī ad tē, quia exaudīvistī mē.^I have called upon thee in the day of my trouble, because thou hast heard me.
Nōn est similis tuī in deīs, Domine, et nōn est secundum opera tua.^There is none among the gods like unto thee, O Lord, and there is none according to thy works.
Omnēs gentēs quāscumque fēcistī venient, et adōrābunt cōram tē, Domine, et glōrificābunt nōmen tuum.^All the nations thou hast made shall come and adore before thee, O Lord, and they shall glorify thy name.
Quoniam magnus es tū, et faciens mīrābilia; tū es Deus sōlus.^For thou art great and dost wonderful things; thou art God alone.
Dēdūc mē, Domine, in viā tuā, et ingrediar in vēritāte tuā; laetētur cor meum ut timeat nōmen tuum.^Conduct me, O Lord, in thy way, and I will walk in thy truth; let my heart rejoice that it may fear thy name.
Confitēbor tibī, Domine Deus meus, in tōtō corde meō, et glōrificābō nōmen tuum in aeternum;^I will praise thee, O Lord my God, with my whole heart, and I will glorify thy name for ever;
quia misericordia tua magna est super mē, et ēruistī animam meam ex infernō inferiōrī.^for thy mercy is great towards me, and thou hast delivered my soul out of the lower hell.
Deus, inīquī insurrēxērunt super mē, et sinagōga potentium quaesīvērunt animam meam, et nōn prōposuērunt tē in conspectū suō.^O God, the wicked are risen up against me, and the assembly of the mighty have sought my soul, and they have not set thee before their eyes.
Et tū, Domine Deus, miserātor et misericors; patiens, et multae misericordiae, et vērāx.^And thou, O Lord God, art compassionate and merciful; patient, and of much mercy, and true.
Respice in mē, et miserēre meī; dā imperium tuum puerō tuō, et salvum fac fīlium ancillae tuae.^O look upon me, and have mercy on me; give thy command to thy servant, and save the son of thy handmaid.
Fac mēcum signum in bonum, ut videant quī ōdērunt mē, et confundantur; quoniam tū, Domine, adjūvistī mē, et consōlātus es mē.^Show unto me a token for good, that they who hate me may see, and be confounded; because thou, O Lord, hast helped me and hast comforted me.
