Misericordiās Dominī in aeternum cantābō; in generātiōnem et generātiōnem adnuntiābō vēritātem tuam in ōre meō,^The mercies of the Lord I will sing for ever; I will show forth thy truth with my mouth to generation and generation,
quoniam dīxistī: In aeternum misericordia aedificābitur in caelīs. Praeparābitur vēritās tua in eīs.^for thou hast said: Mercy shall be built up for ever in the heavens. Thy truth shall be prepared in them.
Disposuī testāmentum ēlectīs meīs, jūrāvī Dāvīd servō meō:^I have made a covenant with my elect; I have sworn to David my servant:
Usque in aeternum praeparābō sēmen tuum, et aedificābō in generātiōnem et generātiōnem sēdem tuam.^Thy seed will I settle for ever, and I will build up thy throne unto generation and generation.
Confitēbuntur caelī mīrābilia tua, Domine, etenim vēritātem tuam in ecclēsiā sanctōrum,^The heavens shall confess thy wonders, O Lord, and thy truth in the church of the saints,
quoniam quis in nūbibus aequābitur Dominō; similis erit Deō in fīliīs Deī?^for who in the clouds can be compared to the Lord; who among the sons of God shall be like to God?
Deus, quī glōrificātur in consiliō sanctōrum, magnus et terribilis super omnēs quī in circumitū ejus sunt.^God, who is glorified in the assembly of the saints, great and terrible above all them that are about him.
Domine Deus virtūtum, quis similis tibī? Potens es, Domine, et vēritās tua in circumitū tuō.^O Lord God of hosts, who is like to thee? Thou art mighty, O Lord, and thy truth is round about thee.
Tū domināris potestātī maris; mōtum autem flūctuum ejus tū mītigās.^Thou rulest the power of the sea; thou also appeasest the motion of the waves.
Tū humiliāstī sīcut vulnerātum, superbum; in brāchiō virtūtis tuae dispersistī inimīcōs tuōs.^Thou hast humbled the proud one, as one that is slain; with the arm of thy strength thou hast scattered thy enemies.
Tuī sunt caelī, et tua est terra; orbem terrae et plēnitūdinem ejus tū fundāstī.^Thine are the heavens, and thine is the earth; the world and the fulness thereof thou hast founded.
Aquilōnem et mare tū creāstī; Thabor et Hermon in nōmine tuō exsultābunt.^The north and the sea thou hast created; Thabor and Hermon shall rejoice in thy name.
Tuum brāchium cum potentiā; firmētur manus tua, et exaltētur dextera tua.^Thy arm is with might; let thy hand be strengthened, and thy right hand exalted.
Jūstitia et jūdicium praeparātiō sēdis tuae; misericordia et vēritās praecēdent faciem tuam.^Justice and judgment are the preparation of thy throne; mercy and truth shall go before thy face.
Beātus populus, quī scit jūbilātiōnem; Domine, in lūmine vultūs tuī ambulābunt,^Blessed is the people that knoweth jubilation; O Lord, they shall walk in the light of thy countenance,
et in nōmine tuō exsultābunt tōtā diē, et in jūstitiā tuā exaltābuntur,^and in thy name they shall rejoice all the day, and in thy justice they shall be exalted,
quoniam glōria virtūtis eōrum tū es, et in benēplacitō tuō exaltābitur cornū nostrum,^for thou art the glory of their strength, and in thy good pleasure shall our horn be exalted,
quia Dominī est assūmptiō nostra, et sanctī Isrāhel rēgis nostrī.^for our protection is of the Lord, and of our king the holy one of Israel.
Tunc locūtus es in vīsiōne sanctīs tuīs, et dīxistī: Posuī adjūtōrium in potente, et exaltāvī ēlectum dē plēbe meā.^Then thou spokest in a vision to thy saints, and saidst: I have laid help upon one that is mighty, and have exalted one chosen out of my people.
Invēnī Dāvīd servum meum; oleō sanctō meō ūnxī eum.^I have found David my servant; with my holy oil I have anointed him.
Manus enim mea auxiliābitur eī, et brāchium meum confortābit eum.^For my hand shall help him, and my arm shall strengthen him.
Nihil prōficiet inimīcus in eō, et fīlius inīquitātis nōn appōnet nocēre eī.^The enemy shall have no advantage over him, nor the son of iniquity have power to hurt him.
Et concīdam ā faciē ipsīus inimīcōs ejus, et odientēs eum in fugam convertam.^And I will cut down his enemies before his face, and them that hate him I will put to flight.
Et vēritās mea et misericordia mea cum ipsō, et in nōmine meō exaltābitur cornū ejus.^And my truth and my mercy shall be with him, and in my name shall his horn be exalted.
Et pōnam in marī manum ejus, et in flūminibus dexteram ejus.^And I will set his hand in the sea, and his right hand in the rivers.
Ipse invocābit mē: Pater meus es tū, Deus meus, et susceptor salūtis meae.^He shall cry out to me: Thou art my father, my God, and the support of my salvation.
Et ego prīmōgenitum pōnam illum, excelsum prae rēgibus terrae.^And I will make him my firstborn, high above the kings of the earth.
In aeternum servābō illī misericordiam meam, et testāmentum meum fidēle ipsī.^I will keep my mercy for him for ever, and my covenant faithful to him.
Et pōnam in saeculum saeculī sēmen ejus, et thronum ejus sīcut diēs caelī.^And I will make his seed to endure for evermore, and his throne as the days of heaven.
Sī autem dērelīquerint fīliī ejus lēgem meam, et in jūdiciīs meīs nōn ambulāverint,^If his children forsake my law, and walk not in my judgments,
sī jūstitiās meās prōfānāverint, et mandāta mea nōn cūstōdīverint,^if they profane my justices, and keep not my commandments,
vīsitābō in virgā inīquitātēs eōrum, et in verberibus peccāta eōrum.^I will visit their iniquities with a rod, and their sins with stripes.
Misericordiam autem meam nōn dispergam ab eō, neque nocēbō in vēritāte meā,^But my mercy I will not take away from him, nor will I suffer my truth to fail.
neque prōfānābō testāmentum meum, et quae prōcēdunt dē labiīs meīs nōn faciam irrita.^Neither will I profane my covenant, and the words that proceed from my mouth I will not make void.
Semel jūrāvī in sanctō meō, sī Dāvīd mentiar;^Once have I sworn by my holiness, if I will lie unto David;
sēmen ejus in aeternum manēbit, et thronus ejus sīcut Sōl in conspectū meō,^his seed shall endure for ever, and his throne as the sun before me,
et sīcut lūna perfecta in aeternum, et testis in caelō fidēlis.^and as the moon perfect for ever, and a faithful witness in heaven.
Tū vērō repulistī et dēspexistī; distulistī chrīstum tuum.^But thou hast rejected and despised; thou hast been angry with my anointed.
Ēvertistī testāmentum servī tuī; prōfānāstī in terrā Sanctuārium ejus.^Thou hast overthrown the covenant of thy servant; thou hast profaned his sanctuary on the earth.
Dēstrūxistī omnēs sēpēs ejus; posuistī firmāmentum ejus formīdinem.^Thou hast broken down all his hedges; thou hast made his strength fear.
Dīripuērunt eum omnēs transeuntēs viam; factus est opprobrium vīcīnīs suīs.^All that pass by the way have robbed him; he is become a reproach to his neighbours.
Exaltāstī dexteram dēprimentium eum; laetificāstī omnēs inimīcōs ejus.^Thou hast set up the right hand of them that oppress him; thou hast made all his enemies to rejoice.
Āvertistī adjūtōrium gladiī ejus, et nōn es auxiliātus eī in bellō.^Thou hast turned away the help of his sword, and hast not assisted him in battle.
Dēstrūxistī eum ab ēmundātiōne, et sēdem ejus in terram collīsistī.^Thou hast made his purification to cease, and thou hast cast his throne down to the ground.
Minōrāstī diēs temporis ejus; perfūdistī eum confūsiōne.^Thou hast shortened the days of his time; thou hast covered him with confusion.
Usquequo, Domine, āvertis in fīnem? Exārdēscet sīcut ignis īra tua?^How long, O Lord, turnest thou away unto the end? Shall thy anger burn like fire?
Memorāre quae mea substantia; numquid enim vānē constituistī omnēs fīliōs hominum?^Remember what my substance is; for hast thou made all the children of men in vain?
Quis est homō quī vīvet et nōn vidēbit mortem, ēruet animam suam dē manū inferī?^Who is the man that shall live and not see death, that shall deliver his soul from the hand of hell?
Ubī sunt misericordiae tuae antīquae, Domine, sīcut jūrāstī Dāvīd in vēritāte tuā?^Where are thy ancient mercies, O Lord, according to what thou didst swear to David in thy truth?
Memor estō, Domine, opprobriī servōrum tuōrum, quod continuī in sinū meō, multārum gentium,^Be mindful, O Lord, of the reproach of thy servants, which I have held in my bosom, of many nations.
quod exprobrāvērunt inimīcī tuī, Domine, quod exprobrāvērunt commūtātiōnem chrīstī tuī.^Wherewith thy enemies have reproached, O Lord, wherewith they have reproached the change of thy anointed.
Benedictus Dominus in aeternum. Fīat, fīat.^Blessed be the Lord for evermore. So be it, so be it.
