Domine, refugium factus es nōbīs ā generātiōne in generātiōnem.^Lord, thou hast been our refuge from generation to generation.
Priusquam montēs fierent, aut fōrmārētur terra et orbis, ā saeculō et usque in saeculum tū es Deus.^Before the mountains were made, or the earth and the world was formed, from eternity and to eternity thou art God.
Nē āvertās hominem in humilitātem. Et dīxistī: Convertiminī fīliī hominum.^Turn not man away to be brought low. And thou hast said: Be converted, O ye sons of men.
Quoniam mīlle annī ante oculōs tuōs tamquam diēs hesterna quae praeterīvit, et cūstōdia in nocte.^For a thousand years in thy sight are as yesterday which is past, and as a watch in the night.
Quae prō nihilō habentur, eōrum annī erunt.^Things that are counted nothing, shall their years be.
Māne sīcut herba transeat; māne flōreat, et transeat; vespere dēcidat, indūret, et ārescat.^In the morning man shall grow up like grass; in the morning he shall flourish, and pass away; in the evening he shall fall, grow dry, and wither.
Quia dēfēcimus in īrā tuā, et in furōre tuō turbātī sumus.^For in thy wrath we have fainted away, and are troubled in thy indignation.
Posuistī inīquitātēs nostrās in conspectū tuō; saeculum nostrum in illūminātiōne vultūs tuī.^Thou hast set our iniquities before thy eyes; our life in the light of thy countenance.
Quoniam omnēs diēs nostrī dēfēcērunt, et in īrā tuā dēfēcimus. Annī nostrī sīcut arānea meditābuntur;^For all our days are spent, and in thy wrath we have fainted away. Our years shall be considered as a spider;
diēs annōrum nostrōrum in ipsīs, septuāgintā annī. Sī autem in potentātibus octōgintā annī, et amplius eōrum labor et dolor; quoniam supervēnit mansuētūdō, et corripiēmur.^the days of our years in them are threescore and ten years. But if in the strong they be fourscore years, and what is more of them is labour and sorrow; for mildness is come upon us, and we shall be corrected.
Quis nōvit potestātem īrae tuae, et prae timōre tuō īram tuam dīnumerāre?^Who knoweth the power of thy anger, and for thy fear can number thy wrath?
Dexteram tuam sīc nōtam fac, et ērudītōs corde in sapientiā.^So make thy right hand known, and men learned in heart, in wisdom.
Convertere, Domine; usquequo? Et dēprecābilis estō super servōs tuōs.^Return, O Lord; how long? And be thou entreated in favour of thy servants.
Replētī sumus māne misericordiā tuā, et exsultāvimus et dēlectātī sumus omnibus diēbus nostrīs.^We are filled in the morning with thy mercy, and we have rejoiced and are delighted all our days.
Laetātī sumus prō diēbus quibus nōs humiliāstī; annīs quibus vīdimus mala.^We have rejoiced for the days in which thou hast humbled us; for the years in which we have seen evils.
Respice in servōs tuōs, et in opera tua, et dīrige fīliōs eōrum.^Look upon thy servants and towards their works, and direct their children.
Et sit splendor Dominī Deī nostrī super nōs, et opera manuum nostrārum dīrige super nōs, et opus manuum nostrārum dīrige.^And let the brightness of the Lord our God be upon us, and direct thou the works of our hands over us, and the work of our hands do thou direct.
