Quī habitat in adjūtōriō Altissimī, in prōtēctiōne Deī caelī commorābitur.^He that dwelleth in the aid of the most High, shall abide under the protection of the God of Jacob.
Dīcet Dominō: Susceptor meus es tū, et refugium meum; Deus meus, spērābō in eum.^He shall say to the Lord: Thou art my protector, and my refuge; my God, in him will I trust.
Quoniam ipse līberāvit mē dē laqueō vēnantium, et ā verbō asperō.^For he hath delivered me from the snare of the hunters, and from the sharp word.
Scapulīs suīs obumbrābit tibī, et sub pennīs ejus spērābis.^He will overshadow thee with his shoulders, and under his wings thou shalt trust.
Scūtō circumdabit tē vēritās ejus; nōn timēbis ā timōre nocturnō,^His truth shall compass thee with a shield; thou shalt not be afraid of the terror of the night,
ā sagittā volante in diē, ā negōtiō perambulante in tenebrīs, ab incursū, et daemoniō merīdiānō.^of the arrow that flieth in the day, of the business that walketh about in the dark, of invasion, or of the noonday devil.
Cadent ā latere tuō mīlle, et decem mīllia ā dextrīs tuīs, ad tē autem nōn adpropinquābit.^A thousand shall fall at thy side, and ten thousand at thy right hand, but it shall not come nigh thee.
Vērumtamen oculīs tuīs consīderābis, et retribūtiōnem peccātōrum vidēbis.^But thou shalt consider with thy eyes, and shalt see the reward of the wicked.
Quoniam tū es, Domine, spēs mea; Altissimum posuistī refugium tuum.^Because thou, O Lord, art my hope; thou hast made the most High thy refuge.
Nōn accēdet ad tē malum, et flagellum nōn adpropinquābit tabernāculō tuō;^There shall no evil come to thee, nor shall the scourge come near thy dwelling;
quoniam angelīs suīs mandāvit dē tē, ut cūstōdiant tē in omnibus viīs tuīs.^for he hath given his angels charge over thee, to keep thee in all thy ways.
In manibus portābunt tē, nē forte offendās ad lapidem pedem tuum.^In their hands they shall bear thee up, lest thou dash thy foot against a stone.
Super aspidem et basiliscum ambulābis, et conculcābis leōnem et dracōnem.^Thou shalt walk upon the asp and the basilisk, and thou shalt trample under foot the lion and the dragon.
Quoniam in mē spērāvit, līberābō eum; prōtegam eum, quoniam cognōvit nōmen meum.^Because he hoped in me, I will deliver him; I will protect him because he hath known my name.
Clāmābit ad mē, et ego exaudiam eum; cum ipsō sum in trībulātiōne; ēripiam eum et glōrificābō eum.^He shall cry to me, and I will hear him; I am with him in tribulation; I will deliver him and I will glorify him.
Longitūdine diērum replēbō eum, et ostendam illī salūtāre meum.^I will fill him with length of days, and I will show him my salvation.
