Bonum est confitērī Dominō, et psallere nōminī tuō, Altissime,^It is good to give praise to the Lord, and to sing to thy name, O most High;
ad adnuntiandum māne misericordiam tuam, et vēritātem tuam per noctem,^to show forth thy mercy in the morning, and thy truth in the night,
in decachordō, psaltēriō, cum canticō in citharā.^upon an instrument of ten strings, upon the psaltery, with a canticle upon the harp.
Quia dēlectāstī mē, Domine, in factūrā tuā, et in operibus manuum tuārum exsultābō.^For thou hast given me, O Lord, a delight in thy doings, and in the works of thy hands I shall rejoice.
Quam magnificāta sunt opera tua, Domine. Nimis profundae factae sunt cōgitātiōnēs tuae.^How great are thy works, O Lord. Thy thoughts are exceeding deep.
Vir insapiens nōn cognōscet, et stultus nōn intelleget haec.^The senseless man shall not know, nor will the fool understand these things.
Cum exortī fuerint peccātōrēs sīcut foenum, et appāruerint omnēs quī operantur inīquitātem, ut intereant in saeculum saeculī;^When the wicked shall spring up as grass, and all the workers of iniquity shall appear, that they may perish for ever and ever;
tū autem Altissimus in aeternum, Domine.^but thou art the Most High for evermore, O Lord.
Quoniam ecce inimīcī tuī, Domine, quoniam ecce inimīcī tuī perībunt, et dispergentur omnēs quī operantur inīquitātem.^For behold thy enemies, O Lord, for behold thy enemies shall perish, and all the workers of iniquity shall be scattered.
Et exaltābitur sīcut ūnicornis cornū meum, et senectūs mea in misericordiā ūberī.^And my horn shall be exalted like that of the unicorn, and my old age in plentiful mercy.
Et dēspexit oculus meus inimīcōs meōs, et in insurgentibus in mē malignantibus audiet auris mea.^And my eye hath looked down upon my enemies, and my ear shall hear of the downfall of the malignant that rise up against me.
Jūstus ut palma flōrēbit; sīcut cedrus Libanī multiplicābitur.^The just shall flourish like the palm tree; he shall grow up like the cedar of Lebanon.
Plantātī in domō Dominī, in ātriīs domus Deī nostrī flōrēbunt.^They that are planted in the house of the Lord, in the courts of the house of our God they shall flourish.
Adhūc multiplicābuntur in senectā ūberī, et bene patientēs erunt,^They shall still increase in a fruitful old age, and shall be well treated,
ut adnuntient quoniam rēctus Dominus Deus noster, et nōn est inīquitās in eō.^that they may show that the Lord our God is righteous, and there is no iniquity in him.
