Deus ultiōnum Dominus; Deus ultiōnum līberē ēgit.^The Lord is the God to whom revenge belongeth; the God of revenge hath acted freely.
Exaltāre, quī jūdicās terram; redde retribūtiōnem superbīs.^Lift up thyself, thou that judgest the earth; render a reward to the proud.
Usquequo peccātōrēs, Domine, usquequo peccātōrēs glōriābuntur?^How long shall sinners, O Lord, how long shall sinners glory?
Effābuntur et loquentur inīquitātem; loquentur omnēs, quī operantur injūstitiam?^Shall they utter and speak iniquity; shall all speak who work injustice?
Populum tuum, Domine, humiliāvērunt, et hērēditātem tuam vexāvērunt.^Thy people, O Lord, they have brought low, and they have afflicted thy inheritance.
Viduam et advenam interfēcērunt, et pūpillōs occīdērunt.^They have slain the widow and the stranger, and they have murdered the fatherless.
Et dīxērunt: Nōn vidēbit Dominus, nec intelleget Deus Jācōb.^And they have said: The Lord shall not see: neither shall the God of Jacob understand.
Intellegite, insapientēs in populō, et, stultī, aliquandō sapite.^Understand, ye senseless among the people, and, you fools, be wise at last.
Quī plantāvit aurem, nōn audiet? Aut quī fīnxit oculum, nōn consīderat?^He that planted the ear, shall he not hear? Or he that formed the eye, doth he not consider?
Quī corripit gentēs nōn arguet? Quī docet hominem scientiam?^He that chastiseth nations, shall he not rebuke? He that teacheth man knowledge?
Dominus scit cōgitātiōnēs hominum, quoniam vānae sunt.^The Lord knoweth the thoughts of men, that they are vain.
Beātus homō, quem tū ērudīverīs Domine, et dē lēge tuā docuerīs eum,^Blessed is the man whom thou shalt instruct, O Lord, and shalt teach him out of thy law.
ut mītigēs eī ā diēbus malīs, dōnec fodiātur peccātōrī fovea.^that thou mayst give him rest from the evil days, till a pit be dug for the wicked.
Quia nōn repellet Dominus plēbem suam, et hērēditātem suam nōn dērelinquet,^For the Lord will not cast off his people, and he will not forsake his own inheritance,
quoadusque jūstitia convertātur in jūdicium, et quī jūxtā illam omnēs quī rēctō sunt corde.^until justice be turned into judgment, and they that are near it are all the upright in heart.
Quis consurget mihī adversus malignantēs? Aut quis stābit mēcum adversus operantēs inīquitātem?^Who shall rise up for me against the evildoers? Or who shall stand with me against the workers of iniquity?
Nisi quia Dominus adjūvit mē, paulō minus habitāsset in infernō anima mea.^Unless the Lord had been my helper, my soul had almost dwelt in hell.
Sī dīcēbam: Mōtus est pēs meus; misericordia tua, Domine, adjuvābat mē.^If I said: My foot is moved; thy mercy, O Lord, assisted me.
Secundum multitūdinem dolōrum meōrum in corde meō, consōlātiōnēs tuae laetificāvērunt animam meam.^According to the multitude of my sorrows in my heart, thy comforts have given joy to my soul.
Numquid adhaeret tibī sēdēs inīquitātis, quī fingis labōrem in praeceptō?^Doth the seat of iniquity stick to thee, who framest labour in commandment?
Captābunt in animam jūstī, et sanguinem innocentem condemnābunt.^They will hunt after the soul of the just, and will condemn innocent blood.
Et factus est mihī Dominus in refugium, et Deus meus in adjūtōrium speī meae.^But the Lord is my refuge, and my God the help of my hope.
Et reddet illīs inīquitātem ipsōrum, et in malitiā eōrum disperdet eōs; disperdet illōs Dominus Deus noster.^And he will render them their iniquity, and in their malice he will destroy them; the Lord our God will destroy them.
