Cantāte Dominō canticum novum; cantāte Dominō, omnis terra.^Sing ye to the Lord a new canticle; sing to the Lord, all the earth.
Cantāte Dominō, et benedīcite nōminī ejus; adnuntiāte dē diē in diem salūtāre ejus.^Sing ye to the Lord, and bless his name; show forth his salvation from day to day.
Adnuntiāte inter Gentēs glōriam ejus; in omnibus populīs mīrābilia ejus.^Declare his glory among the Gentiles; his wonders among all people.
Quoniam magnus Dominus, et laudābilis nimis; terribilis est super omnēs deōs.^For the Lord is great, and exceedingly to be praised; he is to be feared above all gods.
Quoniam omnēs deī Gentium daemonia; Dominus autem caelōs fēcit.^For all the gods of the Gentiles are devils; but the Lord made the heavens.
Confessiō et pulchritūdō in conspectū ejus; sanctimōnia et magnificentia in sanctificātiōne ejus.^Praise and beauty are before him; holiness and majesty in his sanctuary.
Afferte Dominō, patriae gentium, afferte Dominō glōriam et honōrem.^Bring ye to the Lord, O ye kindreds of the Gentiles, bring ye to the Lord glory and honour.
Afferte Dominō glōriam nōminī ejus; tollite hostiās, et introīte in ātria ejus.^Bring to the Lord glory unto his name; bring up sacrifices, and come into his courts.
Adōrāte Dominum in ātriō sanctō ejus; commoveātur ā faciē ejus ūniversa terra.^Adore ye the Lord in his holy court. Let all the earth be moved at his presence.
Dīcite in Gentibus quia Dominus rēgnāvit. Etenim corrēxit orbem terrae quī nōn commovēbitur; jūdicābit populōs in aequitāte.^Say ye among the Gentiles the Lord hath reigned. For he hath corrected the world which shall not be moved; he will judge the people with justice.
Laetentur caelī, et exsultet terra; commoveātur mare, et plēnitūdō ejus.^Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad; let the sea be moved, and the fulness thereof.
Gaudēbunt campī, et omnia quae in eīs sunt; tunc exsultābunt omnia ligna silvārum,^The fields shall rejoice, and all things in them; then shall all the trees of the woods rejoice,
ā faciē Dominī, quia venit, quoniam venit jūdicāre terram. Jūdicābit orbem terrae in aequitāte, et populōs in vēritāte suā.^before the face of the Lord, because he cometh, because he cometh to judge the earth. He shall judge the world with justice, and the people with his truth.
