Domine exaudī ōrātiōnem meam, et clāmor meus ad tē veniat.^Hear, O Lord, my prayer, and let my cry come to thee.
Nōn āvertās faciem tuam ā mē. In quācumque diē trībulor, inclīnā ad mē aurem tuam; in quācumque diē invocāverō tē, vēlōciter exaudī mē.^Turn not away thy face from me. In the day when I am in trouble, incline thy ear to me; in what day soever I shall call upon thee, hear me speedily.
Quia dēfēcērunt sīcut fūmus diēs meī, et ossa mea sīcut cremium āruērunt.^For my days are vanished like smoke, and my bones are grown dry like fuel for the fire.
Percussus sum ut foenum, et āruit cor meum, quia oblītus sum comedere pānem meum.^I am smitten as grass, and my heart is withered,S because I forgot to eat my bread.
Ā vōce gemitūs meī adhaesit os meum carnī meae.^Through the voice of my groaning, my bone hath cleaved to my flesh.
Similis factus sum pelicānō sōlitūdinis; factus sum sīcut nicticorax in domiciliō.^I am become like to a pelican of the wilderness; I am like a night raven in the house.
Vigilāvī, et factus sum sīcut passer sōlitārius in tēctō.^I have watched, and am become as a sparrow all alone on the housetop.
Tōtā diē exprobrābant mihī inimīcī meī, et quī laudābant mē adversum mē jūrābant;^All the day long my enemies reproached me, and they that praised me did swear against me.
quia cinerem tamquam pānem mandūcābam, et pōtum meum cum flētū miscēbam,^For I did eat ashes like bread, and mingled my drink with weeping,
a faciē īrae et indignātiōnis tuae; quia ēlevans allīsistī mē.^because of thy anger and indignation; for having lifted me up thou hast thrown me down.
Diēs meī sīcut umbrā dēclīnāvērunt, et ego sīcut foenum aruī.^My days have declined like a shadow, and I am withered like grass.
Tū autem, Domine, in aeternum permanēs, et memoriāle tuum in generātiōnem et generātiōnem.^But thou, O Lord, endurest for ever, and thy memorial to all generations.
Tū exsurgens miserēberis Siōn, quia tempus miserendī ejus, quia venit tempus.^Thou shalt arise and have mercy on Sion, for it is time to have mercy on it, for the time is come.
Quoniam placuērunt servīs tuīs lapidēs ejus, et terrae ejus miserēbuntur.^For the stones thereof have pleased thy servants, and they shall have pity on the earth thereof.
Et timēbunt Gentēs nōmen tuum, Domine, et omnēs rēgēs terrae glōriam tuam.^All the Gentiles shall fear thy name, O Lord, and all the kings of the earth thy glory.
Quia aedificāvit Dominus Siōn, et vidēbitur in glōriā suā.^For the Lord hath built up Sion, and he shall be seen in his glory.
Respexit in ōrātiōnem humilium et nōn sprēvit precem eōrum.^He hath had regard to the prayer of the humble, and he hath not despised their petition.
Scrībantur haec in generātiōne alterā, et populus, quī creābitur, laudābit Dominum.^Let these things be written unto another generation, and the people that shall be created shall praise the Lord,
Quia prōspexit dē excelsō sānctō suō; Dominus dē caelō in terram aspexit,^because he hath looked forth from his high sanctuary; from heaven the Lord hath looked upon the earth,
ut audīret gemitūs compedītōrum; ut solveret fīliōs interēmptōrum;^that he might hear the groans of them that are in fetters; that he might release the children of the slain;
ut adnūntiet in Siōn nōmen Dominī, et laudem ejus in Jerusalem.^that they may declare the name of the Lord in Sion, and his praise in Jerusalem.
In conveniendō populōs in ūnum, et rēgēs ut serviant Dominō.^When the people assemble together, and kings, to serve the Lord.
Respondit eī in viā virtūtis suae: Paucitātem diērum meōrum nūntiā mihī.^He answered him in the way of his strength: Declare unto me the fewness of my days.
Nē revocēs mē in dīmidiō diērum meōrum, in generātiōnem et generātiōnem annī tuī.^Call me not away in the midst of my days; thy years are unto generation and generation.
Initiō tū, Domine, terram fundāstī, et opera manuum tuārum sunt caelī.^In the beginning, O Lord, thou foundedst the earth, and the heavens are the works of thy hands.
Ipsī perībunt, tū autem permanēs, et omnēs sīcut vestīmentum veterāscent, et sīcut opertōrium mūtābis eōs, et mūtābuntur;^They shall perish but thou remainest, and all of them shall grow old like a garment, and as a vesture thou shalt change them, and they shall be changed.
tū autem īdem ipse es, et annī tuī nōn dēficient.^But thou art always the selfsame, and thy years shall not fail.
Fīliī servōrum tuōrum habitābunt, et sēmen eōrum in saeculum dīrigētur.^The children of thy servants shall continue and their seed shall be directed for ever.
