Benedīce, anima mea, Dominō, et omnia quae intrā mē sunt nōminī sānctō ejus.^Bless the Lord, O my soul, and let all that is within me bless his holy name.
Benedīce, anima mea, Dominō, et nōlī oblīvīscī omnēs retribūtiōnēs ejus.^Bless the Lord, O my soul, and never forget all he hath done for thee.
Quī propitiātur omnibus inīquitātibus tuīs; quī sānat omnēs infirmitātēs tuās.^Who forgiveth all thy iniquities; who healeth all thy diseases.
Quī redimit dē interitū vītam tuam; quī corōnat tē in misericordiā et miserātiōnibus.^Who redeemeth thy life from destruction; who crowneth thee with mercy and compassion.
Quī replet in bonīs dēsīderium tuum; renovābitur ut aquilae juventūs tua.^Who satisfieth thy desire with good things; thy youth shall be renewed like the eagle's.
Faciens misericordiās Dominus, et jūdicium omnibus injūriam patientibus.^The Lord maketh mercies, and judgment for all that suffer wrong.
Nōtās fēcit viās suās Mōsī; fīliīs Isrāhēl voluntātēs suās.^He hath made his ways known to Moses; his wills to the children of Israel.
Miserātor et misericors Dominus; longanimis et multum misericors.^The Lord is compassionate and merciful; longsuffering and plenteous in mercy.
Nōn in perpetuum īrāscētur, neque in aeternum comminābitur.^He will not always be angry, nor will he threaten for ever.
Nōn secundum peccāta nostra fēcit nōbīs, neque secundum inīquitātēs nostrās retribuit nōbīs.^He hath not dealt with us according to our sins, nor rewarded us according to our iniquities.
Quoniam secundum altitūdinem caelī ā terrā, corrōborāvit misericordiam suam super timentēs sē.^For according to the height of the heaven above the earth, he hath strengthened his mercy towards them that fear him.
Quantum distat ortus ab occidente, longē fēcit ā nōbīs inīquitātēs nostrās.^As far as the east is from the west, so far hath he removed our iniquities from us.
Quōmodo miserētur pater fīliōrum, misertus est Dominus timentibus sē.^As a father hath compassion on his children, so hath the Lord compassion on them that fear him.
Quoniam ipse cognōvit figmentum nostrum, recordātus est quoniam pulvis sumus.^For he knoweth our frame; he remembereth that we are dust.
homō, sīcut foenum diēs ejus, tamquam flōs agrī sīc efflōrēbit.^As for man, his days are as grass; as the flower of the field so shall he flourish.
Quoniam spīritus pertrānsīvit in illō, et nōn subsistet, et nōn cognōscet amplius locum suum.^For the spirit passed through him, and he shall not be, and he shall know his place no more.
Misericordia autem Dominī ab aeternō et usque in aeternum super timentēs eum, et jūstitia illīus in fīliōs fīliōrum,^But the mercy of the Lord is from eternity and unto eternity upon them that fear him, and his justice unto children's children,
hīs quī servant testāmentum ejus, et memorēs sunt mandātōrum ipsīus ad faciendum ea.^to such as keep his covenant, and are mindful of his commandments to do them.
Dominus in caelō parāvit sēdem suam, et rēgnum ipsīus omnibus dominābitur.^The Lord hath prepared his throne in heaven, and his kingdom shall rule over all.
Benedīcite Dominō, omnēs angelī ejus; potentēs virtūte, facientēs verbum illīus, ad audiendam vōcem sermōnum ejus.^Bless the Lord, all ye his angels; you that are mighty in strength, that perform his word, hearkening to the voice of his orders.
Benedīcite Dominō, omnēs virtūtēs ejus; ministrī ejus, quī facitis voluntātem ejus.^Bless the Lord, all ye his hosts; his ministers, you who do his will.
Benedīcite Dominō, omnia opera ejus; in omnī locō dominātiōnis ejus, benedic, anima mea, Dominō.^Bless the Lord, all his works; in every place of his dominion, bless the Lord, O my soul.
