Benedic, anima mea, Dominō. Domine Deus meus, magnificātus es vehementer. Confessiōnem et decōrem induistī,^Bless the Lord, O my soul. O Lord my God, thou art exceedingly great. Thou hast put on praise and beauty,
amictus lūmine sīcut vestīmentō, extendens caelum sīcut pellem.^clothed with light as with a garment, stretching out the heaven like a pavilion.
Quī tegis aquīs superiōra ejus; quī pōnis nūbem ascensum tuum; quī ambulās super pennās ventōrum.^Who coverest the higher rooms thereof with water; who makest the clouds thy chariot; who walkest upon the wings of the winds.
Quī facis angelōs tuōs spīritūs, et ministrōs tuōs ignem ūrentem.^Who makest thy angels spirits, and thy ministers a burning fire.
Quī fundāstī terram super stabilitātem suam; nōn inclīnābitur in saeculum saeculī.^Who hast founded the earth upon its own bases; it shall not be moved for ever and ever.
Abissus sīcut vestīmentum amictus ejus; super montēs stābunt aquae.^The deep like a garment is its clothing; above the mountains shall the waters stand.
Ab increpātiōne tuā fugient; ā vōce tonitruī tuī formīdābunt.^At thy rebuke they shall flee; at the voice of thy thunder they shall fear.
Ascendunt montēs, et dēscendunt campī in locum quem fundāstī eīs.^The mountains ascend, and the plains descend into the place which thou hast founded for them.
Terminum posuistī quem nōn transgredientur, neque convertentur operīre terram.^Thou hast set a bound which they shall not pass over, neither shall they return to cover the earth.
Quī ēmittis fontēs in convallibus; inter medium montium pertransībunt aquae.^Thou sendest forth springs in the vales; between the midst of the hills the waters shall pass.
Pōtābunt omnēs bēstiae agrī; expectābunt onagrī in sitī suā.^All the beasts of the field shall drink; the wild asses shall expect in their thirst.
Super ea volucrēs caelī habitābunt; dē mediō petrārum dabunt vōcem.^Over them the birds of the air shall dwell; from the midst of the rocks they shall give voice.
Rigans montēs dē superiōribus suīs; dē frūctū operum tuōrum satiābitur terra;^Thou waterest the hills from thy upper rooms; the earth shall be filled with the fruit of thy works.
prōdūcens foenum jūmentīs, et herbam servitūtī hominum, ut ēdūcās pānem dē terrā,^bringing forth grass for cattle, and herb for the service of men, that thou mayst bring bread out of the earth,
et vīnum laetificet cor hominis, ut exhilaret faciem in oleō, et pānis cor hominis confirmet.^and that wine may cheer the heart of man, that he may make the face cheerful with oil, and that bread may strengthen man's heart.
Saturābuntur ligna campī, et cedrī Libanī quās plantāvit;^The trees of the field shall be filled, and the cedars of Lebanon which he hath planted;
illīc passerēs nīdificābunt; herodiī domus dux est eōrum.^there the sparrows shall make their nests; the highest of them is the house of the heron.
Montēs excelsī cervīs; petra refugium ērīnāceīs.^The high hills are a refuge for the harts; the rock for the hedgehogs.
Fēcit lūnam in tempora; sōl cognōvit occāsum suum.^He hath made the moon for seasons; the sun knoweth his going down.
Posuistī tenebrās, et facta est nox; in ipsā pertransībunt omnēs bēstiae silvae.^Thou hast appointed darkness, and it is night; in it shall all the beasts of the woods go about;
catulī leōnum rugientēs ut rapiant, et quaerant ā Deō escam sibī.^the young lions roaring after their prey, and seeking their meat from God.
Ortus est sōl, et congregātī sunt, et in cubīlibus suīs collocābuntur.^The sun ariseth, and they are gathered together, and they shall lie down in their dens.
Exībit homō ad opus suum, et ad operātiōnem suam usque ad vesperum.^Man shall go forth to his work, and to his labour until the evening.
Quam magnificāta sunt opera tua, Domine. Omnia in sapientiā fēcistī; implēta est terra possessiōne tuā.^How great are thy works, O Lord. Thou hast made all things in wisdom; the earth is filled with thy riches.
Hoc mare magnum, et spatiōsum manibus; illīc rēptilia quōrum nōn est numerus, animālia pusilla cum magnīs.^So is this great sea, which stretcheth wide its arms; there are creeping things without number, creatures little and great.
Illīc nāvēs pertransībunt; dracō iste quem fōrmāstī ad illūdendum eī.^There the ships shall go; this sea dragon which thou hast formed to play therein.
Omnia ā tē expectant ut dēs illīs escam in tempore;^All expect of thee that thou give them food in season;
dante tē illīs, colligent; aperiente tē manum tuam, omnia implēbuntur bonitāte.^what thou givest to them they shall gather up; when thou openest thy hand, they shall all be filled with good.
Āvertente autem tē faciem, turbābuntur; auferēs spīritum eōrum, et dēficient, et in pulverem suum revertentur.^But if thou turnest away thy face, they shall be troubled; thou shalt take away their breath, and they shall fail, and shall return to their dust.
Ēmittēs Spīritum tuum, et creābuntur, et renovābis faciem terrae.^Thou shalt send forth thy spirit, and they shall be created, and thou shalt renew the face of the earth.
Sit glōria Dominī in saeculum; laetābitur Dominus in operibus suīs.^May the glory of the Lord endure for ever; the Lord shall rejoice in his works.
Quī respicit terram, et facit eam tremere; quī tangit montēs, et fūmigant.^He looketh upon the earth, and maketh it to tremble; he troubleth the mountains, and they smoke.
Cantābō Dominō in vītā meā; psallam Deō meō quamdiū sum.^I will sing to the Lord as long as I live; I will sing praise to my God while I have my being.
Jūcundum sit eī ēloquium meum; ego vērō dēlectābor in Dominō.^Let my speech be acceptable to him; but I will take delight in the Lord.
Dēficiant peccātōrēs ā terrā, et inīquī, ita ut nōn sint. Benedic, anima mea, Dominō.^Let sinners be consumed out of the earth, and the unjust, so that they be no more. Bless the Lord, O my soul.
