Confitēminī Dominō, et invocāte nōmen ejus; adnūntiāte inter gentēs opera ejus.^Give glory to the Lord, and call upon his name; declare his works among the Gentiles.
Cantāte eī, et psallite eī; nārrāte omnia mīrābilia ejus.^Sing to him, yea sing praises to him; relate all his wondrous works.
Laudāminī in nōmine sānctō ejus; laetētur cor quaerentium Dominum.^Glory ye in his holy name; let the heart of them rejoice that seek the Lord.
Quaerite Dominum, et confirmāminī; quaerite faciem ejus semper.^Seek ye the Lord, and be strengthened; seek his face evermore.
Mementōte mīrābilium ejus quae fēcit; prōdigia ejus, et jūdicia ōris ejus.^Remember his marvellous works which he hath done; his wonders, and the judgments of his mouth.
Sēmen Abraham, servī ejus; fīliī Jācōb ēlēctī ejus.^O ye seed of Abraham his servant; ye sons of Jacob his chosen.
Ipse Dominus Deus noster; in ūniversā terrā jūdicia ejus.^He is the Lord our God; his judgments are in all the earth.
Memor fuit in saeculum testāmentī suī; verbī quod mandāvit in mīlle generātiōnēs,^He hath remembered his covenant for ever; the word which he commanded to a thousand generations,
quod disposuit ad Abraham, et jūrāmentī suī ad Isaac.^which he made to Abraham, and his oath to Isaac.
Et statuit illud Jācōb in praeceptum, et Isrāhēl in testāmentum aeternum,^And he appointed the same to Jacob for a law, and to Israel for an everlasting testament,
dīcens: Tibī dabō terram Chanaan, fūniculum hērēditātis vestrae.^saying: To thee will I give the land of Chanaan, the lot of your inheritance.
Cum essent numerō brevī, paucissimī, et incolae ejus,^When they were but a small number, very few, and sojourners therein,
et pertransīvērunt dē gente in gentem, et dē rēgnō ad populum alterum.^and they passed from nation to nation, and from one kingdom to another people.
Nōn relīquit hominem nocēre eīs, et corripuit prō eīs rēgēs.^He suffered no man to hurt them, and he reproved kings for their sakes.
Nōlīte tangere christōs meōs, et in profētīs meīs nōlīte malignārī.^Touch ye not my anointed, and do no evil to my prophets.
Et vocāvit famem super terram, et omne firmāmentum pānis contrīvit.^And he called a famine upon the land, and he broke in pieces all the support of bread.
Mīsit ante eōs virum; in servum venundātus est Jōsēf.^He sent a man before them; Joseph, who was sold for a slave.
Humiliāvērunt in compedibus pedēs ejus, ferrum pertransīvit animam ejus,^They humbled his feet in fetters; the iron pierced his soul,
dōnec venīret verbum ejus; ēloquium Dominī inflammāvit eum.^until his word came; the word of the Lord inflamed him.
Mīsit rēx et solvit eum, prīnceps populōrum, et dīmīsit eum.^The king sent and released him, the ruler of the people, and he set him at liberty.
Constituit eum dominum domūs suae, et prīncipem omnis possessiōnis suae,^He made him master of his house, and ruler of all his possession,
ut ērudīret prīncipēs ejus sīcut sēmet ipsum, et senēs ejus prūdentiam docēret.^that he might instruct his princes as himself, and teach his ancients wisdom.
Et intrāvit Isrāhēl in Aegiptum, et Jācōb accola fuit in terrā Chām.^And Israel went into Egypt, and Jacob was a sojourner in the land of Cham.
Et auxit populum suum vehementer, et firmāvit eum super inimīcōs ejus.^And he increased his people exceedingly, and strengthened them over their enemies.
Convertit cor eōrum ut odīrent populum ejus, et dolum facerent in servōs ejus.^He turned their heart to hate his people, and to deal deceitfully with his servants.
Mīsit Mōsem servum suum; Aarōnem, quem ēlēgit ipsum.^He sent Moses his servant; Aaron the man whom he had chosen.
Posuit in eīs verba signōrum suōrum, et prōdigiōrum in terrā Chām.^He gave them power to show them signs, and his wonders in the land of Cham.
Mīsit tenebrās, et obscūrāvit, et nōn exacerbāvit sermōnēs suōs.^He sent darkness, and made it obscure, and grieved not his words.
Convertit aquās eōrum in sanguinem, et occīdit piscēs eōrum.^He turned their waters into blood, and destroyed their fish.
Ēdidit terra eōrum rānās in  penetrālibus rēgum ipsōrum.^Their land brought forth frogs, in the inner chambers of their kings.
Dīxit, et vēnit cinomia et cinifēs in omnibus fīnibus eōrum.^He spoke, and there came divers sorts of flies and sciniphs in all their coasts.
Posuit pluviās eōrum grandinem; ignem combūrentem in terrā ipsōrum.^He gave them hail for rain; a burning fire in the land.
Et percussit vīneās eōrum et fīculneās eōrum, et contrīvit lignum fīnium eōrum.^And he destroyed their vineyards and their fig trees, and he broke in pieces the trees of their coasts.
Dīxit, et vēnit locusta, et brūchus cujus nōn erat numerus;^He spoke, and the locust came, and the bruchus of which there was no number;
et comēdit omne foenum in terrā eōrum, et comēdit omnem frūctum terrae eōrum.^and they devoured all the grass in their land, and consumed all the fruit of their ground.
Et percussit omne prīmōgenitum in terrā eōrum; prīmitiās omnis labōris eōrum.^And he slew all the firstborn in their land; the firstfruits of all their labour.
Et ēdūxit eōs cum argentō et aurō, et nōn erat in tribubus eōrum infirmus.^And he brought them out with silver and gold, and there was not among their tribes one that was feeble.
Laetāta est Aegiptus in profectiōne eōrum, quia incubuit timor eōrum super eōs.^Egypt was glad when they departed, for the fear of them lay upon them.
Expandit nūbem in prōtēctiōnem eōrum, et ignem ut lūcēret eīs per noctem.^He spread a cloud for their protection, and fire to give them light in the night.
Petīvērunt, et vēnit coturnīx, et pāne caelī saturāvit eōs.^They asked, and the quail came, and he filled them with the bread of heaven.
Dīrūpit petram, et flūxērunt aquae; abīvērunt in siccō flūmina;^He opened the rock, and waters flowed; rivers ran down in the dry land.
Quoniam memor fuit verbī sānctī suī, quod habuit ad Abraham puerum suum.^Because he remembered his holy word, which he had spoken to his servant Abraham.
Et ēdūxit populum suum in exsultātiōne, et ēlēctōs suōs in laetitiā.^And he brought forth his people with joy, and his chosen with gladness.
Et dedit illīs regiōnēs Gentium, et labōrēs populōrum possēdērunt;^And he gave them the lands of the Gentiles, and they possessed the labours of the people;
ut cūstōdiant jūstificātiōnēs ejus, et lēgem ejus requīrant.^that they might observe his justifications, and seek after his law.
