Confitēminī Dominō quoniam bonus, quoniam in saeculum misericordia ejus.^Give glory to the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endureth for ever.
Quis loquētur potentiās Dominī, audītās faciet omnēs laudēs ejus?^Who shall declare the powers of the Lord, shall set forth all his praises?
Beātī quī cūstōdiunt jūdicium, et faciunt jūstitiam in omnī tempore.^Blessed are they that keep judgment, and do justice at all times.
Mementō nostrī, Domine, in benēplacitō populī tuī; vīsitā nōs in salūtārī tuō,^Remember us, O Lord, in the favour of thy people; visit us with thy salvation,
ad videndum in bonitāte ēlectōrum tuōrum, ad laetandum in laetitiā gentis tuae, ut laudēris cum hērēditāte tuā.^that we may see the good of thy chosen, that we may rejoice in the joy of thy nation, that thou mayst be praised with thy inheritance.
Peccāvimus cum patribus nostrīs; injūstē ēgimus; inīquitātem fēcimus.^We have sinned with our fathers; we have acted unjustly; we have wrought iniquity.
Patrēs nostrī in Aegiptō nōn intellēxērunt mīrābilia tua; nōn fuērunt memorēs multitūdinis misericordiae tuae, et irrītāvērunt ascendentēs in mare, mare Rubrum.^Our fathers understood not thy wonders in Egypt; they remembered not the multitude of thy mercies, and they provoked to wrath going up to the sea, even the Red Sea.
Et salvāvit eōs propter nōmen suum, ut nōtam faceret potentiam suam.^And he saved them for his own name's sake, that he might make his power known.
Et increpuit mare Rubrum et exsiccātum est, et dēdūxit eōs in abissīs sīcut in dēsertō.^And he rebuked the Red Sea and it was dried up, and he led them through the depths as in a wilderness.
Et salvāvit eōs dē manū odientium, et redēmit eōs dē manū inimīcī.^And he saved them from the hand of them that hated them, and he redeemed them from the hand of the enemy.
Et operuit aqua trībulantēs eōs; ūnus ex eīs nōn remansit.^And the water covered them that afflicted them; there was not one of them left.
Et crēdidērunt verbīs ejus, et laudāvērunt laudem ejus.^And they believed his words, and they sang his praises.
Cito fēcērunt; oblītī sunt operum ejus, et nōn sustinuērunt consilium ejus.^Quickly they had done; they forgot his works, and they waited not for his counsel.
Et concupīvērunt concupiscentiam in dēsertō, et tentāvērunt Deum in inaquōsō.^And they coveted their desire in the desert, and they tempted God in the place without water.
Et dedit eīs petītiōnem ipsōrum, et mīsit saturitātem in animās eōrum.^And he gave them their request, and sent fulness into their souls.
Et irrītāvērunt Mōsem in castrīs; Aarōnem, sanctum Dominī.^And they provoked Moses in the camp; Aaron, the holy one of the Lord.
Aperta est terra, et dēglūttīvit Dathan, et operuit super congregātiōnem Abīron.^The earth opened, and swallowed up Dathan, and covered the congregation of Abiron.
Et exārsit ignis in sinagōgā eōrum; flamma combussit peccātōrēs.^And a fire was kindled in their congregation; the flame burned the wicked.
Et fēcērunt vitulum in Horeb, et adōrāvērunt sculptile.^They made also a calf in Horeb, and they adored the graven thing.
Et mūtāvērunt glōriam suam in similitūdinem vitulī comedentis foenum.^And they changed their glory into the likeness of a calf that eateth grass.
Oblītī sunt Deum quī salvāvit eōs; quī fēcit magnālia in Aegiptō,^They forgot God who saved them; who had done great things in Egypt,
mīrābilia in terrā Cham, terribilia in marī Rubrō.^wondrous works in the land of Cham, terrible things in the Red Sea.
Et dīxit ut disperderet eōs, sī nōn Mōsēs ēlectus ejus stetisset in confractiōne in conspectū ejus, ut āverteret īram ejus nē disperderet eōs.^And he said that he would destroy them, had not Moses his chosen stood before him in the breach, to turn away his wrath, lest he should destroy them.
Et prō nihilō habuērunt terram dēsīderābilem; nōn crēdidērunt verbō ejus.^And they set at nought the desirable land; they believed not his word.
Et murmurāvērunt in tabernāculīs suīs; nōn exaudīvērunt vōcem Dominī.^And they murmured in their tents; they hearkened not to the voice of the Lord.
Et ēlevāvit manum suam super eōs, ut prōsterneret eōs in dēsertō.^And he lifted up his hand over them, to overthrow them in the desert.
Et ut dējiceret sēmen eōrum in Nātiōnibus, et dispergeret eōs in regiōnibus.^And to cast down their seed among the nations, and to scatter them in the countries.
Et initiātī sunt Baalfegor, et comēdērunt sacrificia mortuōrum.^They also were initiated to Beelphegor, and ate the sacrifices of the dead.
Et irrītāvērunt eum in adinventiōnibus suīs, et multiplicāta est in eīs ruīna.^And they provoked him with their inventions, and destruction was multiplied among them.
Et stetit Phinees et plācāvit, et cessāvit quassātiō.^Then Phinehas stood up and made appeasement, and the slaughter ceased.
Et reputātum est eī in jūstitiam, in generātiōnem et generātiōnem usque in sempiternum.^And it was reputed to him unto justice, to generation and generation for evermore.
Et irrītāvērunt eum ad Aquās Contrādictiōnis, et vexātus est Mōsēs propter eōs,^They provoked him also at the waters of contradiction, and Moses was afflicted for their sakes,
quia exacerbāvērunt spīritum ejus, et distīnxit in labiīs suīs.^because they exasperated his spirit, and he distinguished with his lips.
Nōn disperdidērunt gentēs quās dīxit Dominus illīs.^They did not destroy the nations of which the Lord spoke unto them.
Et commixtī sunt inter Gentēs, et didicērunt opera eōrum,^And they were mingled among the heathens, and learned their works,
et servīvērunt sculptilibus eōrum, et factum est illīs in scandalum.^and served their idols, and it became a stumblingblock to them.
Et immolāvērunt fīliōs suōs, et fīliās suās daemoniīs.^And they sacrificed their sons, and their daughters to devils.
Et effūdērunt sanguinem innocentem, sanguinem fīliōrum suōrum et fīliārum suārum quās sacrificāvērunt sculptilibus Chanaan, et infecta est terra in sanguinibus.^And they shed innocent blood, the blood of their sons and of their daughters which they sacrificed to the idols of Chanaan, and the land was polluted with blood.
Et contāmināta est in operibus eōrum, et fornicātī sunt in adinventiōnibus suīs.^And it was defiled with their works, and they went aside after their own inventions.
Et īrātus est furōre Dominus in populum suum, et abōminātus est hērēditātem suam.^And the Lord was exceedingly angry with his people, and he abhorred his inheritance.
Et trādidit eōs in manūs gentium, et dominātī sunt eōrum quī ōdērunt eōs.^And he delivered them into the hands of the nations, and they that hated them had dominion over them.
Et trībulāvērunt eōs inimīcī eōrum, et humiliātī sunt sub manibus eōrum.^And their enemies afflicted them, and they were humbled under their hands.
Saepe līberāvit eōs; ipsī autem exacerbāvērunt eum in consiliō suō, et humiliātī sunt in inīquitātibus suīs.^Many times did he deliver them; however they provoked him with their counsel, and they were brought low by their iniquities.
Et vīdit cum trībulārentur, et audīvit ōrātiōnem eōrum.^And he saw when they were in tribulation, and he heard their prayer.
Et memor fuit testāmentī suī, et poenituit eum secundum multitūdinem misericordiae suae.^And he was mindful of his covenant, and repented according to the multitude of his mercies.
Et dedit eōs in misericordiās in conspectū omnium quī cēperant eōs.^And he gave them unto mercies, in the sight of all those that had made them captives.
Salvōs fac nōs, Domine Deus noster, et congregā nōs dē nātiōnibus, ut confiteāmur nōminī sanctō tuō, et glōriēmur in laude tuā.^Save us, O Lord our God, and gather us from among the nations, that we may give thanks to thy holy name, and may glory in thy praise.
Benedictus Dominus Deus Isrāhel, ā saeculō et usque in saeculum. Et dīcet omnis populus: Fīat, fīat.^Blessed be the Lord the God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting. And let all the people say: So be it, so be it.
