Confitēminī Dominō, quoniam bonus, quoniam in saeculum misericordia ejus.^Give glory to the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endureth for ever.
Dīcant quī redēmptī sunt ā Dominō, quōs redēmit dē manū inimīcī,^Let them say so that have been redeemed by the Lord, whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy.
Dē regiōnibus congregāvit eōs, ā sōlis ortū et occāsū, et ab aquilōne et marī.^Out of the countries he gathered them, from the rising and from the setting of the sun, from the north and from the sea.
Errāvērunt in sōlitūdine, in inaquōsō; viam cīvitātis habitāculī nōn invēnērunt.^They wandered in a wilderness, in a place without water; they found not the way of a city for their habitation.
Ēsurientēs et sitientēs; anima eōrum in ipsīs dēfēcit.^They were hungry and thirsty; their soul fainted in them.
Et clāmāvērunt ad Dominum cum trībulārentur, et dē necessitātibus eōrum ēripuit eōs.^And they cried to the Lord in their tribulation, and he delivered them out of their distresses.
Et dēdūxit eōs in viam rēctam, ut īrent in cīvitātem habitātiōnis.^And he led them into the right way, that they might go to a city of habitation.
Confiteantur Dominō misericordiae ejus, et mīrābilia ejus fīliīs hominum,^Let the mercies of the Lord give glory to him, and his wonderful works to the children of men,
quia satiāvit animam inānem, et animam ēsurientem satiāvit bonīs.^for he hath satisfied the empty soul, and hath filled the hungry soul with good things.
Sedentēs in tenebrīs et umbrā mortis; vīnctōs in mendīcitāte et ferrō,^Those seated in darkness, and in the shadow of death; bound in want and in iron,
quia exacerbāvērunt ēloquia Deī: et consilium Altissimī irrītāvērunt,^because they had exasperated the words of God, and provoked the counsel of the most High,
et humiliātum est in labōribus cor eōrum; infirmātī sunt, nec fuit quī adjuvāret.^and their heart was humbled with labours; they were weakened, and there was none to help them.
Et clāmāvērunt ad Dominum cum trībulārentur, et dē necessitātibus eōrum līberāvit eōs.^Then they cried to the Lord in their affliction, and he delivered them out of their distresses.
Et ēdūxit eōs dē tenebrīs et umbrā mortis, et vincula eōrum dīrūpit.^And he brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, and broke their bonds in sunder.
Confiteantur Dominō misericordiae ejus, et mīrābilia ejus fīliīs hominum.^Let the mercies of the Lord give glory to him, and his wonderful works to the children of men.
Quia contrīvit portās aereās, et vectēs ferreōs confrēgit.^Because he hath broken gates of brass, and burst iron bars.
Suscēpit eōs dē viā inīquitātis eōrum; propter injūstitiās enim suās humiliātī sunt.^He took them out of the way of their iniquity; for they were brought low for their injustices.
Omnem escam abōmināta est anima eōrum, et adpropinquāvērunt usque ad portās mortis.^Their soul abhorred all manner of meat, and they drew nigh even to the gates of death.
Et clāmāvērunt ad Dominum cum trībulārentur, et dē necessitātibus eōrum līberāvit eōs.^And they cried to the Lord in their affliction, and he delivered them out of their distresses.
Mīsit verbum suum, et sānāvit eōs, et ēripuit eōs dē interitiōnibus eōrum.^He sent his word, and healed them, and delivered them from their destructions.
Confiteantur Dominō misericordiae ejus, et mīrābilia ejus fīliīs hominum.^Let the mercies of the Lord give glory to him, and his wonderful works to the children of men.
Et sacrificent sacrificium laudis, et adnuntient opera ejus in exsultātiōne.^And let them sacrifice the sacrifice of praise, and declare his works with joy.
Quī dēscendunt mare in nāvibus, facientēs operātiōnem in aquīs multīs,^They that go down to the sea in ships, doing business in the great waters,
ipsī vīdērunt opera Dominī, et mīrābilia ejus in profundō.^these have seen the works of the Lord, and his wonders in the deep.
Dīxit, et stetit spīritus procellae, et exaltātī sunt flūctūs ejus.^He spoke, and a wind of tempest arose, and the waves thereof were lifted up.
Ascendunt usque ad caelōs, et dēscendunt usque ad abissōs; anima eōrum in malīs tābēscēbat.^They mount up to the heavens, and they go down to the depths; their soul pined away with evils.
Turbātī sunt, et mōtī sunt sīcut ēbrius, et omnis sapientia eōrum dēvorāta est.^They were troubled, and reeled like a drunken man, and all their wisdom was swallowed up.
Et clāmāvērunt ad Dominum cum trībulārentur, et dē necessitātibus eōrum ēdūxit eōs.^And they cried to the Lord in their affliction, and he brought them out of their distresses.
Et statuit procellam ejus in auram, et siluērunt flūctūs ejus.^And he turned the storm into a breeze, and its waves were still.
Et laetātī sunt quia siluērunt, et dēdūxit eōs in portum voluntātis eōrum.^And they rejoiced because they were still, and he brought them to the haven which they wished for.
Confiteantur Dominō misericordiae ejus, et mīrābilia ejus fīliīs hominum.^Let the mercies of the Lord give glory to him, and his wonderful works to the children of men.
Exaltent eum in ecclēsiā plēbis, et in cathedrā seniōrum laudent eum.^Let them exalt him in the church of the people, and praise him in the chair of the ancients.
Posuit flūmina in dēsertum et exitūs aquārum in sitim,^He hath turned rivers into a wilderness and the sources of waters into dry ground,
Terram frūctiferam in salsūginem, ā malitiā inhabitantium in eā.^a fruitful land into barrenness, for the wickedness of them that dwell therein.
Posuit dēsertum in stāgna aquārum, et terram sine aquā in exitūs aquārum.^He hath turned a wilderness into pools of waters, and a dry land into water springs.
Et collocāvit illīc ēsurientēs, et constituērunt cīvitātem habitātiōnis.^And hath placed there the hungry; and they made a city for their habitation.
Et sēmināvērunt agrōs, et plantāvērunt vīneās, et fēcērunt frūctum nātīvitātis.^And they sowed fields, and planted vineyards, and they yielded fruit of birth.
Et benedīxit eīs, et multiplicātī sunt nimis, et jūmenta eōrum nōn minōrāvit.^And he blessed them, and they were multiplied exceedingly, and their cattle he suffered not to decrease.
Et paucī factī sunt, et vexātī sunt ā trībulātiōne malōrum et dolōre.^And they were brought to be few, and they were afflicted through the trouble of evils and sorrow.
Effūsa est contemptiō super prīncipēs, et errāre fēcit eōs in inviō, et nōn in viā.^Contempt was poured forth upon their princes, and he caused them to wander where there was no passing, and out of the way.
Et adjūvit pauperem dē inopiā, et posuit sīcut ovēs familiās.^And he helped the poor out of poverty, and made him families like a flock of sheep.
Vidēbunt rēctī, et laetābuntur, et omnis inīquitās oppīlābit ōs suum.^The just shall see, and shall rejoice, and all iniquity shall stop her mouth.
Quis sapiens, et custōdiet haec? Et intelleget misericordiās Dominī?^Who is wise, and will keep these things? And will understand the mercies of the Lord?
