Parātum cor meum Deus, parātum cor meum; cantābō, et psallam in glōriā meā.^My heart is ready, O God, my heart is ready; I will sing, and will give praise with my glory.
Exsurge, glōria mea; exsurge, psaltērium et cithara; exsurgam dīlūculō.^Arise, my glory; arise, psaltery and harp; I will arise in the morning early.
Confitēbor tibī in populīs, Domine, et psallam tibī in nātiōnibus,^I will praise thee among the people, O Lord, and I will sing unto thee among the nations,
quia magna est super caelōs misericordia tua, et usque ad nūbēs vēritās tua.^for thy mercy is great above the heavens, and thy truth even unto the clouds.
Exaltāre super caelōs, Deus, et super omnem terram glōria tua,^Be thou exalted above the heavens, O God, and thy glory over all the earth,
ut līberentur dīlectī tuī; salvum fac dexterā tuā, et exaudī mē.^that thy beloved may be delivered; save with thy right hand and hear me.
Deus locūtus est in sanctō suō: Exsultābō, et dīvidam Sichimam, et convallem tabernāculōrum dīmētiar.^God hath spoken in his holiness: I will rejoice, and I will divide Sichem and I will mete out the vale of tabernacles.
Meus est Galaad, et meus est Mānāssēs, et Efrāim susceptiō capitis meī; Jūda rēx meus.^Galaad is mine, and Manasses is mine, and Ephraim the protection of my head; Juda is my king.
Moab lebēs speī meae; in Idūmaeam extendam calceāmentum meum; mihī aliēnigenae amīcī factī sunt.^Moab is the pot of my hope; over Edom I will stretch out my shoe; the aliens are become my friends.
Quis dēdūcet mē in cīvitātem mūnītam? Quis dēdūcet mē usque in Idūmaeam?^Who will bring me into the strong city? Who will lead me into Edom?
Nōnne tū, Deus, quī repulistī nōs? Et nōn exībis, Deus, in virtūtibus nostrīs?^Wilt not thou, O God, who hast cast us off? And wilt not thou, O God, go forth with our armies?
Dā nōbīs auxilium dē trībulātiōne, quia vāna salūs hominis.^O grant us help from trouble, for vain is the help of man.
In Deō faciēmus virtūtem, et ipse ad nihilum dēdūcet inimīcōs nostrōs.^Through God we shall do mightily, and he will bring our enemies to nothing.
