In exitū Isrāhel dē Aegiptō, domus Jācob dē populō barbarō,^When Israel went out of Egypt, the house of Jacob from a barbarous people,
facta est Jūdaea sanctificātiō ejus; Isrāhel potestās ejus.^Judea was made his sanctuary; Israel his dominion.
Mare vīdit et fūgit; Jordānis conversus est retrōrsum.^The sea saw and fled; Jordan was turned back.
Montēs exsultāvērunt ut arietēs, et collēs sīcut agnī ovium.^The mountains skipped like rams, and the hills like the lambs of the flock.
Quid est tibī, mare, quod fūgistī? Et tū, Jordānīs, quia conversus es retrōrsum?^What ailed thee, O thou sea, that thou didst flee? And thou, O Jordan, that thou wast turned back?
Montēs, exsultāstis sīcut arietēs? Et collēs, sīcut agnī ovium?^Ye mountains, that ye skipped like rams? And ye hills, like lambs of the flock?
Ā faciē Dominī mōta est terra, ā faciē Deī Jācob,^At the presence of the Lord the earth was moved, at the presence of the God of Jacob,
quī convertit petram in stāgna aquārum, et rūpem in fontēs aquārum.^who turned the rock into pools of water, and the stony hill into fountains of waters.
Nōn nōbīs, Domine, nōn nōbīs, sed nōminī tuō dā glōriam, super misericordiā tuā et vēritāte tuā,^Not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to thy name give glory, for thy mercy and for thy truth's sake,
nēquandō dīcant Gentēs: Ubī est Deus eōrum?^lest the Gentiles should say: Where is their God?
Deus autem noster in caelō; omnia quaecumque voluit fēcit.^But our God is in heaven; he hath done all things whatsoever he would.
Simulācra gentium argentum et aurum, opera manuum hominum.^The idols of the Gentiles are silver and gold, works of the hands of men.
Ōs habent, et nōn loquentur; oculōs habent, et nōn vidēbunt.^They have mouths, and speak not; they have eyes, and see not.
Aurēs habent, et nōn audient; nārēs habent, et nōn odōrābunt.^They have ears, and hear not; they have noses, and smell not.
Manūs habent, et nōn palpābunt; pedēs habent, et nōn ambulābunt; nōn clāmābunt in gutture suō.^They have hands and feel not; they have feet and walk not, neither shall they cry out through their throat.
Similēs illīs fīant quī faciunt ea, et omnēs quī confīdunt in eīs.^Let them that make them become like unto them, and all such as trust in them.
Domus Isrāhel spērāvit in Dominō; adjūtor eōrum et prōtector eōrum est.^The house of Israel hath hoped in the Lord; he is their helper and their protector.
Domus Aarōnis spērāvit in Dominō; adjūtor eōrum et prōtector eōrum est.^The house of Aaron hath hoped in the Lord; he is their helper and their protector.
Quī timent Dominum, spērāvērunt in Dominō; adjūtor eōrum et prōtector eōrum est.^They that fear the Lord have hoped in the Lord; he is their helper and their protector.
Dominus memor fuit nostrī, et benedīxit nōbīs. Benedīxit domuī Isrāhel; benedīxit domuī Aarōnis.^The Lord hath been mindful of us, and hath blessed us. He hath blessed the house of Israel; he hath blessed the house of Aaron;
benedīxit omnibus quī timent Dominum, pusillīs cum majōribus.^he hath blessed all that fear the Lord, both little and great.
Adiciat Dominus super vōs; super vōs et super fīliōs vestrōs.^May the Lord add blessings upon you; upon you and upon your children.
Benedictī vōs ā Dominō, quī fēcit caelum et terram.^Blessed be you of the Lord, who made heaven and earth.
Caelum caelī Dominō; terram autem dedit fīliīs hominum.^The heaven of heaven is the Lord's; the earth however he has given to the children of men.
Nōn mortuī laudābunt tē, Domine, neque omnēs quī dēscendunt in infernum.^The dead shall not praise thee, O Lord, nor any of them that go down to hell.
Sed nōs quī vīvimus benedīcimus Dominō, ex hōc nunc et usque in saeculum.^But we that live bless the Lord, from this time now and for ever.
