Confitēminī Dominō, quoniam bonus, quoniam in saeculum misericordia ejus.^Give praise to the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endureth for ever.
Dīcat nunc Isrāhel quoniam bonus, quoniam in saeculum misericordia ejus.^Let Israel now say, that he is good, that his mercy endureth for ever.
Dīcat nunc domus Aarōnis, quoniam in saeculum misericordia ejus.^Let the house of Aaron now say, that his mercy endureth for ever.
Dīcant nunc quī timent Dominum, quoniam in saeculum misericordia ejus.^Let them that fear the Lord now say, that his mercy endureth for ever.
Dē trībulātiōne invocāvī Dominum, et exaudīvit mē in lātitūdinem Dominus.^In my trouble I called upon the Lord, and the Lord hearkened me into broadness.
Dominus mihī adjūtor; nōn timēbō quid faciat mihī homō.^The Lord is my helper; I will not fear what man can do unto me.
Dominus mihī adjūtor, et ego dēspiciam inimīcōs meōs.^The Lord is my helper, and I will look over my enemies.
Bonum est confīdere in Dominō, quam confīdere in homine.^It is good to confide in the Lord, rather than to have confidence in man.
Bonum est spērāre in Dominō, quam spērāre in prīncipibus.^It is good to trust in the Lord, rather than to trust in princes.
Omnēs gentēs circumīvērunt mē, et in nōmine Dominī quia ultus sum in eōs.^All nations compassed me about, and in the name of the Lord I have been revenged on them.
Circumdantēs circumdedērunt mē, et in nōmine Dominī quia ultus sum in eōs.^Surrounding me they compassed me about, and in the name of the Lord I have been revenged on them.
Circumdedērunt mē sīcut apēs, et exarsērunt sīcut ignis in spīnīs, et in nōmine Dominī quia ultus sum in eōs.^They surrounded me like bees, and they burned like fire among thorns, and in the name of the Lord I was revenged on them.
Impulsus ēversus sum ut caderem, et Dominus suscēpit mē.^Being pushed I was overturned that I might fall, but the Lord supported me.
Fortitūdō mea et laus mea Dominus, et factus est mihī in salūtem.^The Lord is my strength and my praise, and he is become my salvation.
Vōx exsultātiōnis et salūtis in tabernāculīs jūstōrum. Dextera Dominī fēcit virtūtem.^The voice of rejoicing and of salvation is in the tabernacles of the just. The right hand of the Lord hath wrought strength.
Dextera Dominī exaltāvit mē; dextera Dominī fēcit virtūtem.^The right hand of the Lord hath exalted me; the right hand of the Lord hath wrought strength.
Nōn moriar, sed vīvam, et narrābō opera Dominī.^I shall not die, but live, and shall declare the works of the Lord.
Castīgans castīgāvit mē Dominus, et mortī nōn trādidit mē.^The Lord chastising hath chastised me, but he hath not delivered me over to death.
Aperīte mihī portās jūstitiae; ingressus in eās confitēbor Dominō.^Open ye to me the gates of justice; having entered into to them I will give praise to the Lord.
Haec porta Dominī; jūstī intrābunt in eam.^This is the gate of the Lord; the just shall enter into it.
Confitēbor tibī quoniam exaudīvistī mē, et factus es mihī in salūtem.^I will give glory to thee because thou hast heard me, and art become my salvation.
Lapidem quem reprobāvērunt aedificantēs, hic factus est in caput angulī.^The stone which the builders rejected; this is become the head of the corner.
Ā Dominō factum est istud, et est mīrābile in oculīs nostrīs.^This is the Lord's doing, and it is wonderful in our eyes.
Haec est diēs quam fēcit Dominus; exsultēmus, et laetēmur in eā.^This is the day which the Lord hath made; let us be glad and rejoice therein.
Ō Domine, salvum mē fac; ō Domine, bene prōsperāre.^O Lord, save me; O Lord, give good success.
Benedictus quī venit in nōmine Dominī. Benedīximus vōbīs dē domō Dominī.^Blessed be he that cometh in the name of the Lord. We have blessed you out of the house of the Lord.
Deus Dominus, et illūxit nōbīs. Constituite diem sōlemnem in condensīs, usque ad cornū altāris.^The Lord is God, and he hath shone upon us. Appoint a solemn day with shady boughs, even to the horn of the altar.
Deus meus es tū, et confitēbor tibī; Deus meus es tū, et exaltābō tē. Confitēbor tibī quoniam exaudīvistī mē, et factus es mihī in salūtem.^Thou art my God, and I will praise thee; thou art my God, and I will exalt thee. I will praise thee because thou hast heard me, and art become my salvation.
Confitēminī Dominō, quoniam bonus, quoniam in saeculum misericordia ejus.^O praise ye the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endureth for ever.
