Mementō, Domine, Dāvīd et omnis mansuētūdinis ejus,^O Lord, remember David and all his meekness,
sīcut jūrāvit Dominō; vōtum vōvit Deō Jācōb:^how he swore to the Lord; he vowed a vow to the God of Jacob:
Sī introīverō in tabernāculum domūs meae, sī ascenderō in lectum strātī meī,^If I shall enter into the tabernacle of my house, if I shall go up into the bed wherein I lie,
sī dederō somnum oculīs meīs, et palpebrīs meīs dormītātiōnem,^if I shall give sleep to my eyes, or slumber to my eyelids,
et requiem temporibus meīs, dōnec inveniam locum Dominō, tabernāculum Deō Jācōb.^or rest to my temples, until I find out a place for the Lord, a tabernacle for the God of Jacob.
Ecce audīvimus eam in Efrata; invēnimus eam in campīs silvae.^Behold we have heard of it in Ephrata; we have found it in the fields of the wood.
Introībimus in tabernāculum ejus; adōrābimus in locō, ubī stetērunt pedēs ejus.^We will go into his tabernacle; we will adore in the place where his feet stood.
Surge Domine in requiem tuam, tū et arca sānctificātiōnis tuae.^Arise, O Lord, into thy resting place, thou and the ark which thou hast sanctified.
Sacerdōtēs tuī induantur jūstitiam, et sānctī tuī exsultent.^Let thy priests be clothed with justice, and let thy saints rejoice.
Propter Dāvīd servum tuum, nōn āvertās faciem chrīstī tuī.^For thy servant David's sake, turn not away the face of thy anointed.
Jūrāvit Dominus Dāvīd vēritātem, et nōn frūstrābitur eam; dē frūctū ventris tuī pōnam super sēdem tuam.^The Lord hath sworn truth to David, and he will not make it void; of the fruit of thy womb I will set upon thy throne.
Sī cūstōdīverint fīliī tuī testāmentum meum, et testimōnia mea haec quae docēbō eōs, et fīliī eōrum usque in saeculum, sedēbunt super sēdem tuam.^If thy children will keep my covenant, and these my testimonies which I shall teach them, then their children shall sit upon thy throne for ever.
Quoniam ēlēgit Dominus Sīon; ēlēgit eam in habitātiōnem sibī.^For the Lord hath chosen Sion; he hath chosen it for his dwelling.
Haec requiēs mea in saeculum saeculī; hīc habitābō, quoniam ēlēgī eam.^This is my rest for ever and ever; here will I dwell, for I have chosen it.
Viduam ejus benedīcens benedīcam; pauperēs ejus saturābō pānibus.^Blessing I will bless her widow; I will satisfy her poor with bread.
Sacerdōtēs ejus induam salūtārī, et sānctī ejus exsultātiōne exsultābunt.^I will clothe her priests with salvation, and her saints shall rejoice with exceeding great joy.
Illūc prōdūcam cornū Dāvīd; parāvī lucernam chrīstō meō.^There will I bring forth a horn to David; I have prepared a lamp for my anointed.
Inimīcōs ejus induam confūsiōne; super ipsum autem efflōrēbit sānctificātiō mea.^His enemies I will clothe with confusion; but upon him my sanctification shall flourish.
