Laudāte nōmen Dominī; laudāte, servī, Dominum,^Praise ye the name of the Lord; O you his servants, praise the Lord,
quī stātis in domō Dominī, in ātriīs domūs Deī nostrī.^you that stand in the house of the Lord, in the courts of the house of our God.
Laudāte Dominum, quia bonus Dominus; psallite nōminī ejus, quoniam suāve.^Praise ye the Lord, for the Lord is good; sing ye to his name, for it is sweet.
Quoniam Jācōb ēlēgit sibī Dominus, Isrāhēl in possessiōnem sibī.^For the Lord hath chosen Jacob unto himself, Israel for his own possession.
Quia ego cognōvī quod magnus est Dominus, et Deus noster prae omnibus deīs.^For I have known that the Lord is great, and our God is above all gods.
Omnia quaecumque voluit Dominus fēcit, in caelō, in terrā, in marī, et in omnibus abissīs.^Whatsoever the Lord pleased he hath done, in heaven, in earth, in the sea, and in all the deeps.
Ēdūcens nūbēs ab extrēmō terrae, fulgura in pluviam fēcit; quī prōdūcit ventōs dē thēsaurīs suīs.^He bringeth up clouds from the end of the earth; he hath made lightnings for the rain. He bringeth forth winds out of his stores.
Quī percussit prīmōgenita Aegiptī ab homine usque ad pecus.^He slew the firstborn of Egypt from man even unto beast.
Et mīsit signa, et prōdigia in mediō tuī, Aegipte; in Pharaōnem, et in omnēs servōs ejus.^He sent forth signs and wonders in the midst of thee, O Egypt; upon Pharao, and upon all his servants.
Quī percussit gentēs multās, et occīdit rēgēs fortēs;^He smote many nations, and slew mighty kings;
Sehon rēgem Amorrhaeōrum, et Og rēgem Bāsān, et omnia rēgna Chanaan.^Sehon king of the Amorrhites, and Og king of Basan, and all the kingdoms of Chanaan.
Et dedit terram eōrum hērēditātem, hērēditātem Isrāhēl populō suō.^And gave their land for an inheritance, for an inheritance to his people Israel.
Domine, nōmen tuum in aeternum; Domine, memoriāle tuum in generātiōnem et generātiōnem.^Thy name, O Lord, is for ever; thy memorial, O Lord, unto all generations.
Quia jūdicābit Dominus populum suum, et in servīs suīs dēprecābitur.^For the Lord will judge his people, and will be entreated in favour of his servants.
Simulācra Gentium argentum et aurum, opera manuum hominum.^The idols of the Gentiles are silver and gold, the works of men's hands.
Ōs habent, et nōn loquentur; oculōs habent, et nōn vidēbunt.^They have a mouth, but they speak not; they have eyes, but they see not.
Aurēs habent, et nōn audient; neque enim est spīritus in ōre ipsōrum.^They have ears, but they hear not; neither is there any breath in their mouths.
Similēs illīs fīant quī faciunt ea, et omnēs quī confīdunt in eīs.^Let them that make them be like to them, and every one that trusteth in them.
Domus Isrāhēl, benedīcite Dominō; domus Aarōnis, benedīcite Dominō.^Bless the Lord, O house of Israel; bless the Lord, O house of Aaron.
Domus Lēvī, benedīcite Dominō; quī timētis Dominum, benedīcite Dominō.^Bless the Lord, O house of Levi; you that fear the Lord, bless the Lord.
Benedictus Dominus ex Siōn, quī habitat in Jerusalem.^Blessed be the Lord out of Sion, who dwelleth in Jerusalem.
