Domine, clāmāvī ad tē, exaudī mē; intende vōcī meae, cum clāmāverō ad tē.^O Lord, I have cried to thee, hear me; hearken to my voice, when I cry to thee.
Dīrigātur ōrātiō mea sīcut incēnsum in conspectū tuō; ēlevātiō manuum meārum sacrificium vespertīnum.^Let my prayer be directed as incense in thy sight; the lifting up of my hands, as evening sacrifice.
Pōne, Domine, cūstōdiam ōrī meō, et ōstium circumstantiae labiīs meīs.^Set a watch, O Lord, before my mouth, and a door round about my lips.
Nōn dēclīnēs cor meum in verba malitiae, ad excūsandās excūsātiōnēs in peccātīs; cum hominibus operantibus inīquitātem, et nōn commūnicābō cum ēlēctīs eōrum.^Incline not my heart to evil words; to make excuses in sins. With men that work iniquity, and I will not communicate with the choicest of them.
Corripiet mē jūstus in misericordiā, et increpābit mē; oleum autem peccātōris nōn impinguet caput meum. Quoniam adhūc et ōrātiō mea in benēplacitīs eōrum.^The just man shall correct me in mercy, and shall reprove me, but let not the oil of the sinner fatten my head. For my prayer shall still be against the things with which they are well pleased.
Absorptī sunt jūnctī petrae jūdicēs eōrum; audient verba mea quoniam potuērunt.^Swallowed up by the side of the rock have their judges been; They shall hear my words, for they have prevailed.
Sīcut crassitūdō terrae ērupta est super terram, dissipāta sunt ossa nostra secus infernum.^As when the thickness of the earth is broken up upon the ground, our bones are scattered by the side of hell.
Quia ad tē, Domine, Domine oculī meī; in tē spērāvī, nōn auferās animam meam.^But to thee, O Lord, Lord, are my eyes; in thee have I put my trust, take not away my soul.
Cūstōdī mē ā laqueō, quem statuērunt mihī, et ā scandalīs operantium inīquitātem.^Keep me from the snare, which they have laid for me, and from the stumblingblocks of them that work iniquity.
Cadent in rētiāculō ejus peccātōrēs; singulāriter sum ego, dōnec trānseam.^The wicked shall fall in his net; I am alone until I pass.
