Exaltābō tē, Deus meus rēx, et benedīcam nōminī tuō in saeculum, et in saeculum saeculī.^I will extol thee, O God my king, and I will bless thy name for ever, and for ever and ever.
Per singulōs diēs benedīcam tibī, et laudābō nōmen tuum in saeculum, et in saeculum saeculī.^Every day will I bless thee, and I will praise thy name for ever, and for ever and ever.
Magnus Dominus, et laudābilis nimis, et magnitūdinis ejus nōn est fīnis.^Great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised, and of his greatness there is no end.
Generātiō et generātiō laudābit opera tua, et potentiam tuam prōnuntiābunt.^Generation and generation shall praise thy works, and they shall declare thy power.
Magnificentiam glōriae sanctitātis tuae loquentur, et mīrābilia tua nārrābunt.^They shall speak of the magnificence of the glory of thy holiness, and shall tell thy wondrous works.
Et virtūtem terribilium tuōrum dīcent, et magnitūdinem tuam nārrābunt.^And they shall speak of the might of thy terrible acts, and shall declare thy greatness.
Memoriam abundantiae suāvitātis tuae ēructābunt, et jūstitia tua exsultābunt.^They shall publish the memory of the abundance of thy sweetness, and shall rejoice in thy justice.
Miserātor et misericors Dominus; patiens, et multum misericors.^The Lord is gracious and merciful; patient, and plenteous in mercy.
Suāvis Dominus ūniversīs, et miserātiōnēs ejus super omnia opera ejus.^The Lord is sweet to all, and his tender mercies are over all his works.
Confiteantur tibī, Domine, omnia opera tua, et sanctī tuī benedīcant tibī.^Let all thy works, O Lord, praise thee, and let thy saints bless thee.
Glōriam rēgnī tuī dīcent, et potentiam tuam loquentur,^They shall speak of the glory of thy kingdom, and shall tell of thy power,
ut nōtam faciant fīliīs hominum potentiam tuam, et glōriam magnificentiae rēgnī tuī.^to make known to the sons of men thy might, and the glory of the magnificence of thy kingdom.
Rēgnum tuum rēgnum omnium saeculōrum, et dominātiō tua in omnī generātiōne et generātiōnem.^Thy kingdom is a kingdom of all ages, and thy dominion endureth throughout all generations.
Fidēlis Dominus in omnibus verbīs suīs, et sanctus in omnibus operibus suīs.^The Lord is faithful in all his words, and holy in all his works.
Allevat Dominus omnēs, quī corruunt, et ērigit omnēs ēlīsōs.^The Lord lifteth up all that fall, and setteth up all that are cast down.
Oculī omnium in tē spērant, Domine, et tū dās escam illōrum in tempore opportūnō.^The eyes of all hope in thee, O Lord, and thou givest them meat in due season.
Aperīs tū manum tuam, et implēs omne animal benedictiōne.^Thou openest thy hand, and fillest with blessing every living creature.
Jūstus Dominus in omnibus viīs suīs, et sanctus in omnibus operibus suīs.^The Lord is just in all his ways, and holy in all his works.
Prope est Dominus omnibus invocantibus eum, omnibus invocantibus eum in vēritāte.^The Lord is nigh unto all them that call upon him, to all that call upon him in truth.
Voluntātem timentium sē faciet, et dēprecātiōnem eōrum exaudiet, et salvōs faciet eōs.^He will do the will of them that fear him, and he will hear their prayer, and save them.
Cūstōdit Dominus omnēs dīligentēs sē, et omnēs peccātōrēs disperdet.^The Lord keepeth all them that love him, but all the wicked he will destroy.
Laudātiōnem Dominī loquētur ōs meum, et benedīcat omnis carō nōminī sanctō ejus in saeculum, et in saeculum saeculī.^My mouth shall speak the praise of the Lord, and let all flesh bless his holy name for ever, and for ever and ever.
